Grows Out of the Grave 
 
 In the beginning of the fourteenth century a poor widow lived just
outside the Doven Gate [in Bremen] in the vicinity of Jodenberg. She
occupied a cottage that had been given to her by the wealthy Frau
Schwanke, the wife of Conrad von Verden. For many long years she had
served Frau Schwanke's parents as a faithful and industrious maid, and for
this reason Frau Schwanke provided her with various means of support, even
in her old age.  
 To be sure, the old widow had a daughter who was married to a wealthy
tanner in the city, but the daughter had a hard and proud personality, and
when the council at that time gave tanners the right to have their own
guild in the future, the devil of arrogance so overcame the
tanner-master's wife that she became ashamed of her mother, and in the end
she even forbade her to enter her house. 
 The old woman was slow and frail, and she could no longer manage to
provide for herself, even by spinning. She would have perished had it not
been for the help of others. But this help came to a terrible end when
Conrad von Verden, who together with his wealthy cousins had committed a
number of acts of violence, was driven from the city along with all of his
relatives. The old woman could no longer take her pot to Frau Schwanke to
get leftovers from their noon meal, as she had been accustomed to do for a
year and a day.  
 Bitter necessity now drove her to turn to her daughter for charity. It
was a difficult step for her. With a shaking hand she reached for the
staff which for a long time now she had been forced to rely on to support
her unsteady gait.  
 Underway she stopped several times. She feared an angry confrontation
with her daughter, and reflected if it would not be better to take her
problems to someone other than her own child. Suddenly she found herself
standing in front of her son-in-law's house. She hesitated another moment,
then took courage and stepped inside. "After all, she is my daughter, my
only child," she murmured quietly to herself. "God and Saint Willhadus
will soften her harshness." 
 She entered the parlor, where the entire family had gathered to eat
their noon meal. At first she was very embarrassed, standing there in her
poor clothing surrounded by expensive household furnishings and utensils,
and she struggled unsuccessfully for words with which to express her plea.
Having collected herself somewhat, she most movingly described in simple
and unassuming language the hopelessness of her plight. 
 Tears came to her son-in-law's eyes, but he was a weak man who was
completely dominated by his wife, and for nothing in the world would he
have made an independent decision, directed only by his heart. He would
have taken the helpless old woman into his house with pleasure, if it had
depended upon him alone. But as it was, he cast a questioning glance
toward his wife to assure himself of her approval. Fear overcame him when
he saw her face. It was nothing new for him that she should become angry,
even in unimportant matters, but never before had he seen such fury, such
an ugly distortion of her features. It was as though upon the sight of her
mother she had become possessed of an evil spirit. 
 The redness of her raging anger gave way to a corpse-like paleness.
With sparking animal-like eyes she appeared to want to penetrate the being
to whom she owed her life and existence and who had protected her with
maternal nurture in her youth and had cared for her in sickness. 
 Terrified, the old woman looked around for a chair, for her strength
threatened to leave her. For a moment the man's human feelings overcame
his fear of his wife, and he rushed forward to catch the half-unconscious
woman. Until now the tanner-master's wife had sat there quietly without
saying a word, or without even moving. But now her anger suddenly exploded
like a crashing thunder-storm that had been threatening in the skies for
some time. With superhuman strength she pushed her husband aside and like
a wild animal threw herself furiously at her own mother, in order to
punish her for having dared to come here, although she had been expressly
forbidden to do so. Striking at her with her fists, she finally drove her
out of the parlor door. 
 The old woman lay on the hallway floor with her face to the ground. She
did not move, and the daughter's demands that she stand up were in
vain. 
 The daughter's unnatural anger suddenly dissipated at this pitiful
sight. It was as though a curtain had been drawn from her eyes and that
she could finally see whom she had directed her blind fury against.
"Mother!" she cried, horrified at what she had done. "Forgive me! Come to
your sinful and repentant daughter. Before God and all the saints, if the
most tender attention and the most loving care can erase this terrible sin
from your memory, then you shall forget it." 
 Gripped by the deepest sympathy, she bent over the unfortunate woman in
order to lift her up. She wanted never again to be separated from her,
never again to cause her concern. But this change of disposition came too
late, and with horror she saw that she was wasting her loving caresses on
a corpse. 
 The tanner-master's wife was spared by an earthly judge, for it was
determined that the old woman did not die only as a result of the attack,
but even more from fear and terror. But there is also a judge who dwells
above the clouds who does not make his determinations according to earthly
expectations and sophistry. 
 The tanner-master's wife died suddenly thereafter, and a few days after
her burial, the gravedigger noticed with horror that the buried woman's
hands -- with which she had attacked her mother -- were extending from the
grave. And this miracle can be seen to this day, eternalized in stone in
the ambulatory of the cathedral.