Once upon a time, way back in the middle ages, the clan MacLeod was a very 
strong clan in Scotland, and the fairies or "little people" favored it 
much. So the queen of the fairies gave to the chief a wonderful flag which 
possessed the quality of granting them three wishes, but only in time of 
great need. The flag was carefully laid away and not brought out for a 
long while.   
At last there was great woe at Dunvegan, the castle of the MacLeods, for 
the heir was lost. Then someone thought of the flag and it was used, and 
soon after the boy was found.   
A second time it was used to save the chief from death, and carefully laid 
away again, but, alas, so carefully that it could not be found till, in 
1799, an iron chest that seemed keyless was broken open and found to 
contain an inner case in which was a scented casket, in that the fairy 
flag.   
Now, before the finding of the flag a seer had predicted that when the 
third Norman son of an English lady should perish accidentally, the 
"Maidens" (three large rocks in the ocean belonging to MacLeod) should be 
sold to the Campbells; a fox should litter in the castle; and the fairy 
flag be found. The glory of the MacLeods would then depart, but to be more 
than recovered in the future when another chief called Ian Breac should 
arise.   
In 1799 all these things happened, but at the present time the heir 
presumptive is called Ian Breac, so it is to be hoped that the glory of 
the MacLeod's will return.   
The fairy flag is still shown at Dunvegan Castle, on the Isle of Skye. It 
is of fine yellow silk and has many so called "elf marks" on it in red 
silk thread.   
Lovers of Scott's poems will recognize these lines of his translation of 
"Mackrimmon's Lament," an old song composed by a piper of the clan 
MacLeod: 
 
MacLeod's wizard flag from the gray castle sallies,   
The rowers are seated,  
Unmoored are the galleys. 
  
I have before me, as I write, a letter from the twenty-third chief of the 
clan, in which he tells me that though the belief in fairies is probably 
gone, the flag is still there to convince people of this tradition.