Once upon a time there was a Raja who had two sons, and after their 
father's death they divided the kingdom between them. The two brothers 
were inveterate gamblers and spent their time playing cards with each 
other. For a long time fortune was equal, but one day it turned against 
the elder brother, and he lost and lost until his money and his jewelry, 
his horses and his elephants and everything that he had, had been won by 
his younger brother. Then in desperation he staked his share in the 
kingdom, and that too he lost.  
Then the younger brother sent drummers through the city to proclaim that 
the whole kingdom was his. The shame of this was more than the elder 
prince could bear, so he resolved to quit the country, and he told his 
wife of his intention and bade her stay behind. 
But his faithful wife refused to be parted from him. She vowed that he had 
married her not for one day nor for two, but for good and all, and that 
where he went, there she would go, and whatever troubles he met, she would 
share. 
So he allowed her to come with him, and the two set off to foreign parts. 
After some time their path led them through an extensive jungle, and after 
traveling through it for two days they at last lost their way completely. 
Their food gave out; they were faint with starvation and torn with briars. 
 
The prince urged his wife to return, but she would not hear of it, so they 
pushed on, supporting life on jungle fruits. Sometimes the prince would go 
far ahead, for his faithful wife could only travel slowly, and then he 
would return and wait for her.   
At last he got tired of leading her on and made up his mind to abandon 
her. At night they lay down at the foot of a tree, and the prince thought, 
"If wild animals would come and eat us, it would be the best that could 
happen. I cannot bear to see my wife suffer any more. Although her flesh 
is torn with thorns, she will not leave me. I will leave her here; may 
wild beasts kill both her and me, but I cannot see her die before my 
eyes."  
So thinking he got up quietly and went off as quickly as he could.   
When the princess woke and found that she had been abandoned, she began to 
weep, and wept from dawn to noon without ceasing. At noon a being in the 
guise of an old woman appeared and asked her why she wept, and comforted 
her and promised to lead her out of the wood and told her that Chando [a 
sun god] had had compassion on her and would allow her to find her husband 
again if they both lived.  
So saying, the old woman led the princess from the forest and showed her 
the way to a great city where a Raja lived. The princess went begging her 
way through the city to the Raja's palace, and there they engaged her as a 
servant.   
Now her husband had also escaped from the jungle and sought employment as 
a laborer, but no one would give him work for more than a day or two, and 
at last his search for work brought him to the city in which the princess 
was; and there he was engaged as a groom in the palace stables. The prince 
had changed his name, and he had no chance of knowing that his wife was in 
the palace, because she was confined to the women's apartments. So some 
years passed without their having news of each other.   
At last one day the princess happened to go onto the roof and looking down 
at the stables saw and thought she recognized her husband. Then she leaned 
over and listened till she heard his voice, and at that she was sure that 
it was he, so she hastened to the Raja and begged to be allowed to meet 
her husband, and the Raja sent to call the syce [a servant who attends to 
horses] with the name which the princess had given, but no one came, for 
the prince would not reveal himself.   
Then the princess told their story, and how her husband had gambled away 
his half of the kingdom. The Raja ordered anyone with such a history to 
come forward, as his wife was in the palace; but the prince did not reveal 
himself.   
Then the princess said, "Let all the syces cook rice and bring me a bit of 
each man's cooking to taste."   
They did so, and when she tasted the rice cooked by her husband, she at 
once said that it was his. Her husband was unable to deny it and admitted 
everything. Then they took him away from his work in the stables and let 
him live with his wife.   
After a time the Raja wrote to the younger brother asking whether he would 
restore the half of the kingdom which he had won; and the younger brother 
answered that he would gladly do so, if his brother would sign an 
agreement never to gamble anymore. It was with this object in view and to 
teach him the folly of his ways that he had dispossessed him.  
The elder brother gladly gave the required promise and returned to his 
kingdom with his faithful wife, and lived happily ever afterwards.