In olden times it was the custom to kill the old people because they
were considered useless. A young man did not have the heart to kill his
old father, but as he stood in fear of the others, he hid his father in
the
cellar in an empty cask. He gave him food and drink secretly, so that not
a soul was able to discover his secret. 
 There came suddenly the order that all men capable of bearing arms
should get ready to fight a terrible monster which was spreading round its
lair misery and trouble. The pious son did not know how to provide during
his absence for the imprisoned father, so that he should not die of thirst
and hunger. He brought all the victuals that were in the house, and he
told his father of his trouble, inasmuch as he might never return, and
that
his beloved father would in consequence die a miserable death. 
 The old man replied, "Should you not return, I willingly give up my
wretched body to death. In order, however, that you should not die through
this monster, listen to my advice. It will be a help to you. The cavern in
which that monster lives has many hundred passages and corners which are
crossing and re-crossing one another, so that even if you should succeed
in killing the monster, you would never be able to find the way out, and
you will all die of hunger and thirst. Take therefore our black mare with
her foal with you to the mouth of the cave and there kill and bury the
foal and take the mare with you. She is sure to bring you back after you
have killed the monster." 
 After the old man had thus spoken, the young man took leave of him with
tears in his eyes and went away with the other men. They arrived at the
mouth of the cave. He killed the foal as his father had advised him, but
he did not tell the others why he did so. 
 After a heavy fight they succeeded at last in killing the monster, but
fear seized upon the warriors when they discovered that in spite of much
searching they could not find the way out. Then the young man took the
black mare and let her go on. He followed her and asked the others to
follow him. 
 The mare started neighing and looking for her foal and hit at once upon
the right path, and after a while they reached the mouth of the cave. When
the others saw that they had escaped an inevitable death through the
cleverness of their brother in arms, they wanted to know how he came to
discover this happy device. He feared that if he told the truth both he
and his old father would lose their lives. But after they had promised him
under oath that no harm would befall him, he spoke out firmly and told
them that he had kept his father alive in the cellar and that his father
had given him the advice about the mare when he went to take leave of
him. 
 On hearing this they were astounded, and one of them exclaimed, "Our
forefathers have not acted well in teaching us to kill the old men. They
have gained experience and they can help our people by their advice when
the strength of our arm fails."