A poor widow's misery was increased by the knowledge that her son, her
only son, around whom she had built up many many hopes, was a half-wit.
 
 One day she sent him to the bazaar with some cloth and told him to sell
it for four rupees. The boy went, and sat down in the most public
thoroughfare of the city. 
 "How much do you want for that piece of cloth?" asked a man. 
 "Four rupees," replied the boy. 
 "All right. I'll give you six rupees for it. It is worth it. Here, take
the money." 
 "No, no," said the boy. "Its price is four rupees." 
 "You scamp!" exclaimed the man angrily, and went on. He thought the boy
was joking with him. 
 On reaching home in the evening he informed his mother of this
incident, and she was grieved that he had not taken the money. 
 Another day she sent him to the bazaar, and advised him to salaam
everybody, saying that nothing was ever lost by politeness, but, on the
contrary, everything was sometimes gained by it. The stupid boy sallied
forth, and began making salaams to everybody and everything he met -- a
sweeper, a horse, some little children, a house. A number of asses, too,
passed by with loads on their backs, and he said "Salaam" to them
also. 
 "Hey! You fool! What are you doing?" said the donkey-driver in charge.
"Don't you know that we say "Fri fri?" [an exclamation used for urging on
donkeys], whereupon the boy commenced saying "Fri fri" to every person and
thing. He passed a man who had just spread a snare for a bird that he very
much wished to catch, when "Fri fri" shouted the boy, and most effectually
frightened away the bird. 
 "You blackguard! What are you doing?" said the man. "You should say
"Lag lag" in a very soft tone." 
 Then the boy began to say "Lag lag." He was wandering about crying "Lag
lag" when he came across some thieves coming out of a garden, where they
had just been stealing the fruit. 
 "What do you mean?" said they. "Be quiet, you fool, or say something
else. Go and shout, 'Let go one and take the other.'" 
 So the boy did, and while he was shouting these words a funeral cortege
passed by. 
 "Be quiet," said some of the mourners. "Have you so little respect for
the dead? Get along home." 
 At length, disappointed and disheartened, not knowing what to do or
what to say, the half-wit returned to his mother and told her
everything.