Once upon a time there was a girl playing be the side of a river. She was playing with a golden ball. And all of a sudden the ball fell into the river and she began weeping.  
When all of a sudden a frog put up his head from over the water and said, "If I catch you the ball, what will you give me?"  
"I will you whatever you ask."  
So the frog ducked down under the water and brought her up the ball.  
As soon as she got the ball off she went across the fields home to her father's house. She went upstairs eating her dinner no sooner had she been upstairs and seated on her chair to eat her dinner when a knock came to the door.  
The father went up to open it, and when he saw the frog he was amazed and asked him what he wanted, and he said that his daughter had promised him whatever he asked if he got a ball, and when I got the ball off she went and left me there.  
"Well," said the father. "you must keep your promise."  
So she went to the frog and asked what he would like, and he said, "Let me eat off your plate and sleep in your bed and sit on your chair."  
So she shivered at the thought, but she had to keep her promise, so he ate off her plate, and when the night came he slept on her bed, and when morning came he went out, and the princess thought she was relieved of him, but it was all in vain.  
When night came the frog came back again and on her pillow all night long for three nights in succession until the third morning there beside her in the bed a lovely prince instead of a frog, and she was frightened very much. And he told her all the story of what happened, and he said that of hundred years ago there lived an old witch and turned me into a frog by her bad evil. And she said that he could not be released until a king's daughter would come and speak to him and let him eat off her plate and sleep on her pillow and sit on her chair, and as soon as this was done he was turned to his right shape.  
Then they fell in love and got married and lived happily ever afterwards.