They were two brothers. Abel greatly loved Cain, but Cain did not love
so much the brother Abel.
 Cain had no great will to work.
 Abel, however, on the contrary, was greatly disposed ( si ingegnava ) to labor, because
he had found it profitable. He was industrious in all, and at last became
a grazier ( mercante di manzi .
 And Cain also, being moved by jealousy ( per astia ), wished to become a grazier, but
the wheel did not turn for him as it did for Abel.
 And Cain also was a good man, and set himself contentedly to work,
believing that he could become as rich as his brother, but he did not
succeed in this, for which reason he became so envious of Abel that it
resulted in tremendous hate, and he swore to be revenged.
 Cain often visited his brother, and once said to him, "Abel, thou art
rich and I am poor. Give me the half of thy wealth, since thou wishest me so
well!"
 Then Abel replied, "If I give thee a sum which thou thyself couldst gain
by industry, thou shouldst still labor as I do, and I will give thee nothing,
since, if thou wilt work as I do, thou wilt become as rich."
 One day there were together Cain, Abel, and a merchant, whose name I
forget. And one told that he had seen in a dream seven fat oxen and seven
lean. And the merchant, who was an astrologer or wizard, explained that
the seven fat oxen meant seven years of abundance, and the seven lean as
many years of famine.
 And so it came to pass as he foretold -- seven years of plenty and
seven of famine.
 And Cain, hearing this, thought, "During the seven years of plenty Abel
will lay by a great store, and then I will slay him, and possess myself of
all his goods, and thus I will take care of myself, and my brother will be
dead."
 Now, Cain greatly loved God; he was good towards God, more so than Abel,
because Abel, having become rich, never spoke more unto the Lord; and Abel
would gladly have become a wizard himself.
 Then Cain began to think how he could slay Abel and become a merchant
in his place, and so went forth to cut wood.
 One day he called his brother Abel, and said to him, "Thou art so rich,
while I am poor, and all my work avails me little." And with that he gave
Abel a blow with a knife, and dressed himself in his garments, and took a
bundle of thorns on his back, and thus clad he took Abel's place as a
merchant, believing that no one would recognize him as Cain.
 And while thus buying and selling he met the merchant-wizard who had
foretold the seven years of famine and of abundance. And he said, "Oh,
good day, Abel," to make Cain believe that he was not discovered. But the
oxen who were present all began to chant in chorus:
 Do not call that person Abel; 
It is Cain, do you not see it? 
Cain who, for the greed of money, 
Treacherously slew his brother, 
And then clad him in his garments. 
Now, O Cain! thou wilt be summoned 
Speedily unto the presence 
Of the Lord, who had condemned thee 
Unto death for thy great avarice. 
 Cain came before God.
 O great God of endless mercy, 
Thou who art so good and mighty, 
Grant, I pray thee, grant me pardon 
For the good I did while living! 
Truly once, but for an instant, 
I forgot myself, but deeply 
I since then have long repented 
That I slew my brother Abel. 
 But God replied:
 A punishment thou shalt have because thou didst slay thy
brother from a desire to become rich. Likewise thou didst meddle with
witchcraft and sorceries, as did thy brother. And Abel made much money and
was very rich, because he did not love God, but sorcerers. Albeit, ever
good he never did evil things, and many good, wherefore God pardoned him.
But thou shalt not be pardoned because thou didst imbrue thy hands in
human blood, and, what is worse, in thy own brother's blood. 
 The punishment which I inflict is this: 
 The thorns which thou didst put upon thy brother are now for thee. 
 Thou shalt be imprisoned in the moon, and from that place shalt behold
the good and the evil of all mankind. 
 And the bundle of thorns shall never leave thee, and every time when
anyone shall conjure thee, the thorns shall sting thee cruelly. They shall
draw thy blood.
 And thus shalt thou be compelled to do that which shall be required of
thee by the sorcerers or by conjuring, and if they ask of thee that which
thou wilt not give, then the thorns shall goad thee until the sorceries
shall cease.