proverbs 
 For most pre-industrial cultures, life's last chapter has been a bitter
one. Surviving folklore reflects widespread resignation as to the
inevitability of impoverishment, sexual impotence, failing health and
vitality, and the loss of family and community status. No one expected the
impossible. Such euphemisms as "golden years" and "senior citizens" did
not exist. 
 
 You cannot teach an old dog new tricks.  
 There is no fool like an old fool.  
 An old man who takes a young wife invites Death to the wedding.  
 Nothing good will come from an old man who still wants to dance.  
 For an old man to marry is like wanting to harvest in the wintertime.
 
 Old people can dye their hair, but they can't change their backs.
 
 Age is poverty.  
 Age is a troublesome guest.  
 Age is a sickness from which everyone must die.  
 Youth rises, age falls.  
 A young wife is an old man's dispatch horse to the grave.  
 A young woman with an old husband is a wife by day and a widow by
night.  
 A woman's beauty, an echo in the forest, and a rainbow all quickly
disappear.  
 When the old cow dances, her claws rattle.  
 When the wolf grows old, the crows ride him. 
 
 
 Source: Wander,  Deutsches Sprichwörter-Lexikon,
 vol. 1, cols. 55, 58-60; Simrock,  Die deutschen Sprichwörter,
 pp. 281, 614; Jente,  Proverbia Communia , nos. 28,
102. 
 These proverbs reflect a chapter of life that most of us would prefer
to ignore. We do not like to be reminded of our own mortality, and in
today's world, institutions such as hospitals, hospices, retirement
centers, and funeral homes (euphemisms abound in the language of death!)
shield us from the worst of the Grim Reaper's ravages. We cope, or so it
might seem, by pretending that death does not exist. 
 The foolish man thinks he'll live forever 
if he stays away from war, 
but old age shows him no mercy 
though the spears spare him. 
 
...
 
 Cattle die, kinsmen die, 
one day you die yourself; 
I know one thing that never dies --  
the dead man's reputation. 
 Source:  Poems of the Elder Edda , translated by Patricia
Terry, pp. 13, 21 
 It has not always been so. In the religion of the ancient north, even
the gods were mortal. For example, Balder -- the Norse god of light and 
joy,
and the son of Odin and Frigga -- was
killed by a spear of mistletoe (according to Snorri Sturluson) or by a
magic sword (according to Saxo Grammaticus). His death, we read in  The
Prose Edda,  "was the greatest misfortune ever to befall gods and men."
Other Nordic gods were also vulnerable. Loki, the infamous trickster,
challenged the mighty Thor to wrestle his aged foster-mother, an old crone
named Elli. Much to Thor's chagrin, the old woman beat him, but -- as Loki
later explained -- the trickster had temporarily placed Thor under the
spell
of old age, and "there never has been, nor ever will be anyone (if he
grows old enough to become aged), who is not tripped up by old age." In
fact, none of the deities will be spared. According to Norse mythology,
all the gods will be killed by the forces of evil on the day of
Ragnarök (also known as the  Götterdämmerung 
 -- "Twilight of the Gods" -- perhaps best known now through Richard
Wagner's
opera). 
 Our ancestors coped, from the evidence of mythology and folklore, by
directly confronting the debilitation of age and the inevitability of
death.