There was once a man who was the laziest man in all the world. He
wouldn't take off his clothes when he went to bed because he didn't want
to have to put them on again. He wouldn't raise his cup to his lips but
went down and sucked up his tea without carrying the cup. He wouldn't play
any sports because he said they made him sweat. And he wouldn't work with
his hands for the same reason. 
 But at last he found that he couldn't get anything to eat unless he did
some work for it. So he hired himself out to a farmer for the season. But
all through the harvest he ate as much and worked as little as he could.
And when the fall came and he went to get his wages from his master all he
got was a single pea. 
 "What do you mean by giving me this?" he said to his master. 
 "Why, that is all that your labor is worth," was the reply. "You have
eaten as much as you have earned." 
 "None of your lip," said the man. "Give me my pea. At any rate I have
earned that." 
 So when he got it he went to an inn by the roadside and said to the
landlady, "Can you give me lodging for the night, me and my pea?" 
 "Well, no," said the landlady, "I haven't got a bed free, but I can
take care of your pea for you." 
 No sooner said than done. The pea was lodged with the landlady, and the
laziest man went and lay in a barn nearby. 
 The landlady put the pea upon a dresser and left it there, and a
chicken wandering by saw it and jumped up on the dresser and ate it. So
when the laziest man called the next day and asked for his pea the
landlady couldn't find it. She said, "The chicken must have swallowed
it." 
 "Well, I want my pea," said the man. "You had better give me the
chicken." 
 "Why, what, when, how?" stammered the landlady. "The chicken is worth
thousands of your pea." 
 "I don't care for that. It has got my pea inside it, and the only way I
can get my pea is to have that which holds the pea." 
 "What, give you my chicken for a single pea? Nonsense!" 
 "Well, if you don't, I'll summon you before the justice." 
 "Ah, well, take the chicken and my bad wishes with it." 
 So off went the man and sauntered along all day, till that night he
came to another inn, and asked the landlord if he and his chicken could
stop there. 
 He said, "No, no, we have no room for you, but we can put your chicken
in the stable if you like." 
 So the man said yes and went off for the night. But there was a savage
sow in the stable, and during the night she ate up the poor chicken. And
when the man came the next morning he said to the landlord, "Please give
me my chicken." 
 "I am awfully sorry, sir," said he, "but my sow has eaten it up." 
 The laziest man said, "Then give me your sow." 
 "What, a sow for your chicken? Nonsense! Go away, my man." 
 "Then if you don't do that, I'll have you before the justice." 
 "Ah, well, take the sow and my curses with it," said the landlord. 
 And the man took the sow and followed it along the road till he came to
another inn, and said to the landlady, "Have you room for me and my
sow?" 
 "I have not," said the landlady, "but I can put your sow up." 
 So the sow was put in the stable, and the man off to lie in the barn
for the night. Now the sow went roaming about the stable, and coming too
near the hoofs of the mare, was hit in the forehead and killed by the
mare's hoofs.  
 So when the man came in the morning and asked for his sow the landlady
said, "I'm very sorry, sir, but an accident has occurred. My mare has hit
your sow in the skull, and she is dead." 
 "What, the mare?" 
 "No, your sow." 
 "Then give me the mare." 
 "What, my mare for your sow? Nonsense!" 
 "Well, if you don't I'll take you before the justice. You'll see if
it's nonsense." 
 So after some time the landlady agreed to give the man her mare in
exchange for the dead sow. 
 Then the man followed on in the steps of the mare till he came to
another inn, and asked the landlord if he could put him up for the night,
him and his mare. 
 The landlord said, "All our beds are full, but you can put the mare up
in the stable if you will." 
 "Very well," said the man, and tied the halter of the mare into the
ring of the stable. 
 Next morning early the landlord's daughter said to her father, "That
poor mare has had nothing to drink. I'll go and lead it to the river." 
 "That is none of your business," said the landlord. "Let the man do it
himself." 
 "Ah, but the poor thing has had nothing to drink. I'll bring it back
soon." 
 So the girl took the mare to the river brink and let it drink the
water. But, by chance, the mare slipped into the stream, which was so
strong that it carried the mare away. And the young girl ran back to her
mother and said, "Oh mother, the mare fell into the stream and it was
carried quite away What shall we do? What shall we do?" 
 When the man came round that morning he said, "Please give me my
mare." 
 "I'm very sorry indeed, sir, but my daughter -- that one there --
wanted to give the poor thing a drink and took it down to the river and it
fell in and was carried away by the stream. I'm very sorry indeed." 
 "Your sorrow won't pay my loss," said the man. "The least you can do is
to give me your daughter." 
 "What, my daughter to you because of the mare!" 
 "Well, if you don't, I will take you before the justice." 
 Now the landlord didn't like going before the justice. So after much
haggling he agreed to let his daughter go with the man. And they went
along, and they went along, and they went along, till at last they came to
another inn, which was kept by the girl's aunt, though the man didn't know
it. So he went in and said, "Can you give me beds for me and my girl
here?" 
 So the landlady looked at the girl, who said nothing, and said, "Well,
I haven't got a bed for you but I have a bed for her. But perhaps she'll
run away." 
 "Oh, I will manage that," said the man. And he went a got a sack and
put the girl in it and tied her up. And then he went off.  
 As soon as he was gone the girl's aunt opened the bag and said, "What
has happened, my dear?" And she told the whole story.  
 So the aunt took a big dog and put it in the sack. And when the man
came the next morning, he said, "Where's my girl?" 
 "There she is, so far as I know." 
 So he took the sack and put it on his shoulder and went on his was for
a time. Then as the sun grew high he sat down under the shade of a tree
and thought he would speak to the girl. And when he opened the sack, the
big dog flew out at him, and he fell back, and that's the last I heard of
him.