Once upon a time there was a king whose wife was the most beautiful
woman in the world, with hair of pure gold. Together they had a daughter,
and she was as beautiful as her mother, and she had the same golden hair.
The queen became ill, and when she felt that she was about to die, she
called the king to her side and asked him not to marry anyone following
her death, unless she was just as beautiful as she, and unless her hair
was just as golden as hers. The king made this promise, and she died.
 For a long time the king was so grieved that he did not think about a
second wife, but finally his councilors advised him to marry again. He
sent messengers to all the princesses, but none was as beautiful as the
deceased queen, and such golden hair could not be found anywhere in the
world.
 Then one day the king's glance fell on his daughter, and he saw that
she looked just like her mother, and that she had the same golden hair. He
thought to himself, "You will never find anyone in the world this
beautiful. You will have to marry your daughter." And in that instant he
felt such a strong love for her, that he immediately announced his
decision to his councilors. They tried to dissuade him, but to no avail.
 The princess was horrified at his godless intentions, but because she
was clever, she told the king that he should first get her three dresses:
one as golden as the sun, one as white as the moon, one that glistened
like the stars. Further, he was to get her a coat made from a thousand
kinds of fur. Every animal in the kingdom would have to give up a piece of
its skin for it.
 The king was so fervent in his desires, that he had his huntsmen
capture animals from across the entire kingdom. They were skinned, and a
coat was made from their pelts. Thus, it did not take long before he
brought the princess everything that she had asked for.
 The princess said that she would marry him the next day. That night she
sought out the presents that she had received from her
fiancé: a golden ring, a little golden spinning wheel, and a
little golden yarn reel. She put the three dresses into a nutshell,
blackened her hands and face with soot, put on the coat of all kinds of
fur, and left. She walked the entire night until she came to a great
forest. She would be safe there. Because she was tired, she sat down in a
hollow tree and fell asleep.
 She was still asleep the next day when the king, her fiancé,
came to this forest to hunt. His dogs ran up to the tree and sniffed at
it. The king sent his huntsmen to see what kind of animal was in the tree.
They came back and said that it was a strange animal, the likes of which
they had never seen before. It had every kind of fur on its skin, and it
was lying there asleep. The king ordered them to capture it and to tie it
onto the back of his carriage. As the huntsmen were doing this, they saw
that it was a girl. They tied her onto the back of the carriage and rode
home with her.
 "All-Kinds-of-Fur," they said, "you are good for the kitchen. You can
carry water and wood, and clean out the ashes." Then they gave her a
little stall beneath the steps, where the light of day never shone, and
said, "This is where you can live and sleep."
 So she had to help the cook in the kitchen. She plucked chickens,
tended the fire, gathered vegetables, and did all the dirty work. Because
she did very well at all this, the cook was good to her, and in the
evening he often invited her in and gave her something to eat from the
leftovers. Before the king went to bed, she had to go
upstairs and pull off his boots. When she had pulled them off, he always
threw them at her head. Poor All-Kinds-of-Fur lived like this for a
long time. Oh, you beautiful maiden, what will become of you?
 Once there was a ball at the castle, and All-Kinds-of-Fur thought that
she might see her fiancé once again, so she went to the cook and
asked him if he would allow her to go upstairs a little and look in at the
splendor from the doorway. "Go ahead," said the cook, "but do not stay
longer than a half hour. You still have to clean out the ashes tonight."
 Then All-Kinds-of-Fur took her little oil lamp and went to her stall
where she washed off the soot. Her beauty came forth just like blossoms in
the springtime. She took off the fur coat, opened up the nut and took out
the dress that glistened like the sun. She put it on and went upstairs.
Everyone made room for her, and thought that a noble princess had entered
the hall. The king immediately invited her to dance, and as he danced with
her, he thought how closely this unknown princess resembled his own
fiancée. The longer he looked at her, the stronger the resemblance.
He was almost certain that this was his fiancée, and at the end of
the dance, he was going to ask her. However, when they finished dancing,
she bowed, and before the king knew what was happening, she disappeared.
 He asked the watchmen, but none of them had seen the princess leave the
castle. She had run quickly to her stall, taken off the dress, blackened
her hands and face, and put on the fur coat once again. Then she went to
the kitchen to clean out the ashes, but the cook said, "Leave them until
morning. I want to go upstairs and have a look at the dance. You make some
soup for the king, but don't let any hairs fall into it, or there will be
nothing more to eat for you."
 All-Kinds-of-Fur made some bread soup for the king, then she put the
golden ring in it that he had given her. When the ball was over, the king
had his bread soup brought to him. It tasted better than any he had ever
eaten. When he was finished, he found the ring on the bottom of the bowl.
Looking at it carefully, he saw that it was his engagement ring.
Astonished, he could not understand how it had gotten there. He summoned
the cook, who then became very angry with All-Kinds-of-Fur. "You must have
let a hair fall into the soup," he said. "If you did, there will be blows
for you."
 However, when the cook went upstairs, the king asked him who had made
the soup, because it had been better than usual. The king had to confess
that it had been All-Kinds-of-Fur. Then the king had her sent up to him.
"Who are you?" he asked upon her arrival. "What are you doing in my
castle, and where did you get the ring that was lying in the soup?"
 She answered, "I am only a poor child whose father and mother are dead.
I have nothing, and I am good for nothing more than having boots thrown at
my head. And I know nothing about the ring." With that she ran away.
 Soon there was another ball. All-Kinds-of-Fur again asked the cook to
allow her to go upstairs. The cook gave his permission, but only for a
half hour, because by then she would have to be back in the kitchen to
make the king's bread soup. All-Kinds-of-Fur went to her stall, washed
herself clean, and took out the moon-dress. It was purer and brighter than
newly fallen snow. When she arrived upstairs the dance had just begun. The
king extended his hand to her, and danced with her, and no longer doubted
that this was his fiancée, for no one else in the world had such
golden hair. However, the princess immediately slipped out when the dance
ended, and the king, in spite of his great effort, could not find her.
Further, he had not spoken a single word with her.
 She was All-Kinds-of-Fur once again, with blackened hands and face. She
took her place in the kitchen and made bread soup for the king, while the
cook went upstairs to have a look. When the soup was ready, she put the
golden spinning wheel in it. The king ate the soup, and thought that it
was even better this time. When he found the golden spinning wheel, he was
even more astonished, because it had been a present from him to his
fiancée some time ago. The cook was summoned again, and then
All-Kinds-of-Fur, but once again she answered by saying that she knew
nothing about it, and that she was there only to have boots thrown at her
head.
 For the third time, the king held a ball. He hoped that his
fiancée would come again, and he would not let her escape this
time. All-Kinds-of-Fur again asked the cook to allow her to go upstairs,
but he scolded her, saying, "You are a witch. You are always putting
things in the soup. And you can cook better than I can." But because she
begged so, and promised to behave herself, he gave her permission to go
upstairs for a half hour.
 She put on the dress of stars. It glistened like stars in the night.
She went upstairs and danced with the king, and he thought that he had
never seen her more beautiful. While dancing, he slipped a ring onto her
finger. He had ordered that it should be a very long dance. He could not
bring himself to speak to her, nor could he keep her from escaping. As
soon as the dance ended, she jumped into the crowd and disappeared before
he could turn around.
 She ran to her stall. Because she had been gone more than a half hour,
she quickly took off her dress, and in her rush she failed to blacken
herself entirely. One finger remained white. When she returned to the
kitchen, the cook had already left. She quickly made some bread soup and
put the golden yarn reel into it.
 The king found it, just as he had found the ring and the golden
spinning wheel, and now he knew for sure that his fiancée was
nearby, for no one else could have had these presents. All-Kinds-of-Fur
was summoned. Once again she tried to make an excuse and then run away,
but as she ran by, the king noticed a white finger on her hand, and he
held her fast. He found the ring that he had slipped onto her finger, and
then he ripped off her fur coat. Her golden hair flowed out, and he saw
that it was his dearly beloved fiancée. The cook received a
generous reward. Then they got married and lived happily until they died.