Once upon a time there was a king whose wife died, leaving him a small 
daughter. With time she grew into a beautiful maiden, and when the king 
saw how beautiful she was he said to her, "I want to marry you. You must 
become my wife."   
"How can you take me for a wife," said the girl, "for I am your daughter." 
  
"That is all the same to me. I want to marry you."   
"That is entirely impossible!" said the girl. "Just go to the bishop and 
listen to what he says. If he says that you are right, then take me in 
God's name."   
So the king went to the bishop and asked, "If someone has a lamb that he 
himself has cared for and raised, is it better that he should eat it, or 
that another person should eat it?"   
"No," answered the bishop, "it is better for the person to eat it who 
raised it."   
Then the king went back to his daughter and said, "He told me that I may 
take you."   
"If he really told you that you make take me, then take me in God's name. 
But first make me two dresses of pure gold, and fill the pockets with 
ducats. Also make a bed for me, and a shaft that goes ten fathoms deep 
into the earth."   
When the king had done all this, the girl took the dresses, climbed into 
the bed, then rode in into the shaft, saying, "Earth, open further." And 
the earth opened further, and she rode one until she came out at another 
place, and there she remained.   
A prince was hunting there, and he found the girl, wrapped in an animal 
skin. He approached her and asked, "Are you a human?"   
She answered, "Yes, I am a human. May I go with you?"   
He replied, "For all I care you may come with me." He took her with him 
and let her herd the geese.   
One day the king gave a feast, and the women began to dance. Then the girl 
slipped out of her animal skin and went to the ball in her golden dress, 
and danced. The prince saw her and said to himself," Who can that be? When 
she leaves the ball, I will follow her."  
When the ball was over the girl left, and the prince crept after her. She 
noticed him, and she began to run, and he ran after her. Then the girl 
took a handful of ducats and threw them to the ground. While the prince 
was gathering up the gold she slipped away and hid herself in her animal 
skin.   
Then the prince said, "Tomorrow I will give another feast, in order to see 
who she is."   
The next day at the ball the girl came again and danced, and when she left 
the ball the prince ran after her. While running away she lost a shoe, and 
while the prince was picking it up she escaped half barefoot, then hid 
herself again in her animal skin.   
The prince took the shoe and tried it onto all the girls in order to see 
whom it fitted, but he could not find the right one.   
When the servant girls were taking wash water to the king before he ate, 
the girl split her animal skin a little at her knee so that her gold dress 
was visible. Then she went to the servant girls and said that she would 
like to take the water to the king.   
But they said, "What? You, a goose girl want to take water to the king?" 
  
"What is the matter?" asked the king.   
"The goose girl want to bring your water."   
"Then let her do so. Just let her come."   
When she knelt down the golden dress shone through the slit. The prince 
saw this and cried out, "So you are the one who tormented me so!" And with 
that he took her as his wife.