Split  
 
Once a carabao and a turtle met on a road. They walked in the woods, and 
had a fine talk together. The turtle was a sort of humorist, and was 
constantly giving exhibitions of his dexterity in getting food by 
trickery. But he was especially anxious to win the friendship of the 
carabao; for he thought that, if they were friendly, this big fellow would 
help him whenever he got into trouble. So he said to the carabao, "Let us 
live together and hunt our food together! thus we shall break the monotony 
of our solitary lives."   
But the carabao snorted when he heard this proposal; and he replied, "You 
slow thing! You ought to live with the drones, not with a swift and 
powerful person like me."   
The turtle was very much offended, and to get even he challenged the 
carabao to a race. At first the carabao refused to accept the challenge, 
for he thought it would be a disgrace for him to run against a turtle. The 
turtle said to the carabao, "If you will not race with me, I will go to 
all the forests, woods, and mountains, and tell all your companions and 
all my friends and all the animal kingdom that you are a coward."   
Now the carabao was persuaded; and he said, "All right, only give me three 
days to get ready for the race." The turtle was only too glad to have the 
contest put off for three days, for then he too would have a chance to 
prepare his plans. The agreement between the turtle and the carabao was 
that the race should extend over seven hills.   
The turtle at once set out to visit seven of his friends; and, by telling 
them that if he could win this race it would be to the glory of the turtle 
kingdom, he got them to promise to help him. So the next day he stationed 
a turtle on the top of each hill, after giving them all instructions.   
The third day came. Early the next morning the turtle and the carabao met 
at the appointed hill. At a given signal the race began, and soon the 
runners lost sight of each other. When the carabao reached the second 
hill, he was astonished to see the turtle ahead of him, shouting, "Here I 
am!" After giving this yell, the turtle at once disappeared. And at every 
hill the carabao found his enemy ahead of him.   
When the carabao was convinced at the seventh hill that he had been 
defeated, he became so angry that he kicked the turtle. On account of the 
hardness of its shell, the turtle was uninjured; but the hoof of the 
carabao was split in two, because of the force of the blow. And even 
today, the carabaos still bear the mark which an unjust action on the part 
of their ancestor against one whom he knew was far inferior to him in 
strength produced on himself.