One of mankind's most persistent dreams is to postpone death. Folktales
describe many such attempts, cloaked in a variety of symbolic garbs. They
rarely succeed, not even in the fantasy world of the magic tale. The
widespread story of "Godfather Death," retold below in a Swedish version,
is typical: 
 A poor man with a large family could find no one to be
godfather for his latest son. Finally Death appeared, and the poor man
chose him, saying: "You make no distinction between high and
low." 
 Years later, on the godson's wedding night, Death called him
from his bed and took him to a cave where countless candles were
burning. 
 "Whose light is that?" asked the godson, pointing to a candle
that was flickering out. 
 "Your own," answered the godfather. The godson pleaded with
Death to put a new candle in his holder, but the godfather did not answer.
The light flickered and went out and the godson fell down
dead. 
 We find from this that you can neither persuade nor cheat
Death. 
 Source: Retold from Thompson,  100 Favorite Folktales,
 no. 18, type 332.  
Similar tales include "The Godfather" (Grimm, no.
42) and "Godfather Death" (Grimm, no. 44).  
See  Godfather Death: Tales of 
Aarne-Thompson Type 
332 . 

 
 Although death cannot be avoided permanently, there are many folktales
that describe temporary respites. The story of the blacksmith who tricked
death (sometimes identified as "the devil") is one of the most popular
folktales in Europe: 
 The Lord granted a smith three wishes, and the latter chose a
pear tree that would detain anyone who climbed into it, an easy chair that
would hold anyone who sat in it, and a bag that would imprison anyone who
climbed into it. The devil came to get the smith, and the smith invited
him to help himself to some fruit from his pear tree. The devil climbed
into the tree and was stuck there. The smith would not release him until
he promised to give the smith four more years of life. When the time was
up the devil returned, but he made the mistake of sitting in the smith's
magic chair, and he had to promise four more years before the smith would
release him. On the devil's third visit, the smith tricked him into his
bag, and then beat the bag with his hammer until the devil promised to
leave him alone. 
 Later the smith got to thinking that he had perhaps acted
unwisely, and he knocked on the gate of hell to make amends. However the
devil would have nothing to do with him, so the smith found his way to
heaven. He got there just as St. Peter was letting someone in, and the
gate was still ajar. The smith made a rush, and if he didn't get in, then
I don't know what became of him. 
 Source: Retold from "The Master-Smith," type 330
(Asbjørnsen and Moe,  East o' the Sun,  p. 105.) For
additional variations on this very popular theme see Ashliman,  A Guide
to Folktales,  pp. 73-75 
 From a theological perspective, possibly the most interesting aspect of
this tale is the cavalier attitude that it demonstrates about agreements
made with the devil. The devil of these folktales is not the cunning,
sinister, wicked, nearly omnipotent being of traditional religion, but is
instead a bungling fool, and one who can be outwitted by a clever mortal.
This is not an unusual situation in folktales. In fact, even St. Peter is
frequently portrayed as a fool, both in his role as keeper of the gate to
heaven and as a contrast to his much wiser companion Jesus.