In the year 1396 when Sigismundus, the former King of Hungary, was defeated by the Turkish emperor Celapino, a German soldier deserted his regiment in the thick of battle and took refuge in the woods.   
The foes of war were soon replaced by the enemies cold,
thirst, and hunger. With nowhere to turn for help, he was about to
surrender to the powers of despair, when without warning an awful spirit
appeared before him. He offered the poor soldier great wealth, if he would
but serve this uncanny master for seven years. Seeing no other escape from
his misery, the soldier agreed.  
The terms of the pact were quickly stated: For seven years the soldier was to wear only a bearskin robe, both day and night. He was to say no prayers. Neither comb nor shears were to touch his hair and beard. He was not to wash, nor cut his nails, nor blow his nose, nor even wipe his behind. In return, the spirit would provide
him with tobacco, food, drink, and an endless supply of money.  
The soldier, who by his very nature was not especially fond of either prayers
or of cleanliness, entered into the agreement. He took lodgings in a
village inn, and discovered soon enough that his great wealth was ample
compensation for his strange looks and ill smell.  
A nobleman frequented this inn. Impressed by Bearskin's lavish and generous expenditures, he presented him with a proposal. "I have three beautiful daughters," he said. "If the terms are right, you may choose any one of them for a
bride."  
Bearskin named a sum that was acceptable to the nobleman, and
the two set forth to the palace to make the selection. The two older
daughters made no attempt to hide their repugnance of the strange suitor,
but the youngest unhesitatingly accepted her father's will. Bearskin
formalized the betrothal by removing a ring from his own finger and
twisting it into two pieces. One piece he gave to his future bride; the
other he kept. Saying that soon he would return, he departed.  
The seven years were nearly finished, so a short time later Bearskin did indeed come
back for his bride. Now freshly bathed, neatly shorn, elegantly dressed,
and riding in a luxurious carriage, he was a suitor worthy of a princess.
Identifying himself with his half of the twisted ring, he claimed his
bride.  
Beside themselves with envy, and furious that they had
squandered their rights to this handsome nobleman, one of the bride's
older sisters hanged herself from a tree and the other one drowned herself
in a well. Thus the devil gained two souls for the one that he had lost.