Once upon a time there was a young fellow who enlisted as a soldier, 
conducted himself bravely, and was always at the very front when it was raining 
bullets. As long as the war lasted all went well, but when peace was made he was
dismissed, and the captain said he could go wherever he wanted to.  
 His parents were dead, and he had no longer a home, so he went to his
brothers and asked them to support him until there was another war.  
 The brothers, however, were hardhearted and said, "What can we do with
you? We have no work for you. See that you go and make a living for 
yourself."
 
 The soldier had nothing left but his gun, so, putting it on his 
shoulder, he went forth into the world. He came to a large heath, on which nothing was to be seen but a circle of trees. Filled with sorrow, he sat down beneath them 
and thought about his fate.  
 "I have no money," he thought, "and the only trade I have
learned is that of making war, and now that they have made peace they can 
no longer use me, so I see that I shall starve."  
 Suddenly he heard a rustling sound, and when he looked around, a 
strange man was standing before him. He wore a green jacket and looked quite stately, but he had a hideous horse's foot.  
 "I know what you are in need of," said the man. "You shall
have money and property, as much as you, with all your might, can squander
away, but first I must know if you are fearless, so that I won't be giving 
away my money for nothing."  
 "A soldier and fear -- how can those go together?" he answered,
"You can put me to the test."  
 "Very well," answered the man, "look behind you."  
 The soldier turned around and saw a large growling bear running towards 
him.
 
 "Aha," shouted the soldier, "I'll tickle your nose until you
lose your desire for growling." Then taking aim at the bear, he shot it in
the snout, and it fell down motionless.  
 "I see quite well," said the stranger, "that you do not lack
for courage, but there is one more condition that you will have to
fulfill."  
 "If it does not endanger my salvation," answered the soldier, who
knew quite well who was standing before him. "Otherwise I'll have nothing
to do with it."  
 "You'll see about that for yourself," answered Greenjacket.
"For the next seven years you are neither to wash yourself, nor comb your
beard and hair, nor cut your nails, nor say the Lord's prayer. I will give 
you a jacket and a cloak, which you must wear during this time. If you die 
during these seven years, you are mine. If you stay alive, you are free, and rich 
as well, for all the rest of your life."  
 The soldier thought about his desperate situation, and having faced 
death so often before, he decided to risk it now as well, and he entered into the
agreement.  
 The devil took off his green jacket and gave it to the soldier, saying,
"Whenever you wear this jacket and reach into its pocket, you will find a
handful of money."  
 Then he pulled the skin off the bear and said, "This shall be your
cloak, and your bed as well, for you are to sleep on it, and you are not
allowed to lie in any other bed. Because of your clothing you shall you be
called Bearskin." With that the devil disappeared.  
 The soldier put on the jacket, immediately reached into the pocket, and
found that the promise was really true. Then he put on the bearskin and 
went forth into the world. He did whatever he pleased, refraining from nothing 
that did him good and his money harm. 
 During the first year his appearance was still acceptable, but during 
the second he looked like a monster. His hair covered nearly his entire face. 
His beard looked like a piece of coarse felt cloth. His fingers had claws, and 
his face was so covered with dirt that if someone had planted cress on it, it 
would have grown. Everyone who saw him ran away. However, because everywhere he 
went he gave money to the poor to pray that he might not die during the seven 
years, and because he paid well for everything, he always found shelter. 
 In the fourth year he arrived an inn. The innkeeper would not let him 
enter, refusing even to let him have a place in the stable because he was afraid 
he would frighten the horses. However, when Bearskin reached into his pocket 
and pulled out a handful of ducats, the innkeeper softened and gave him a room 
in an outbuilding. Bearskin, however, had to promise not to let himself be 
seen, lest the inn should get a bad name. 
 One evening Bearskin was sitting alone, wishing with all his heart that 
the seven years were over, he heard a loud moaning in a neighboring room. He 
had a compassionate heart, so he opened the door and saw an old man weeping 
bitterly and striking his hands together above his head. Bearskin went nearer, but 
the man jumped to his feet and tried to run away. At last, hearing a human 
voice, the man let Bearskin talk to him, and with friendly words Bearskin 
succeeded in getting the old man to reveal the cause of his grief. Slowly but surely 
the old man had lost his wealth, and now he and his daughters would have to 
starve. He was so poor that he could not pay the innkeeper and was to be sent to 
prison.  
 "If that is your only problem," said Bearskin, "I have money
enough." He called for the innkeeper and paid him, and then put a bag full
of gold into the poor man's pocket.  
 When the old man saw that he was freed from all his troubles he did not 
know how to show his gratitude.  
 "Come with me," he said to Bearskin. "My daughters are all
miracles of beauty. Choose one of them for your wife. When she hears what 
you have done for me she will not refuse you. You do look a little strange, to 
be sure, but she will put you in order again."  
 This pleased Bearskin well, and he went with the old man.  
 When the oldest daughter saw him she was so terrified at his face that 
she screamed and ran away.  
 The second one stood still and looked at him from head to foot, but 
then she said, "How can I accept a husband who no longer has a human form? The
shaved bear that once was here and passed itself off for a man pleased me 
far better. At least it was wearing a hussar's fur and white gloves. If 
ugliness were his only flaw, I could get used to him."  
 The youngest one, however, said, "Father, dear, he must be a good man 
to have helped you out of your trouble. If you promised him a bride for doing 
so, your word must be kept."  
 It was a pity that Bearskin's face was covered with dirt and hair, for
otherwise they would have seen how his heart laughed within his body when 
he heard these words. He took a ring from his finger, broke it in two, and gave her 
one half. He kept the other half himself. He then wrote his name inside her 
half, and her name inside his. He asked her to take good care of her piece.  
 Then he took leave saying, "I must wander about for three more years.
If I do not return at that time you are free, for I shall be dead. But ask 
God to preserve my life."  
 The poor bride-to-be dressed herself entirely in black, and when she 
thought about her future bridegroom, tears came into her eyes. From her sisters 
she received nothing but contempt and scorn.  
 "Be careful," said the oldest. "If you give him your hand, he
will hit you with his claws."  
 "Beware," said the second. "Bears like sweet things, and if
he takes a liking to you, he will eat you up."  
 "You must always do what he wants you to," continued the oldest,
"or he will begin to growl."  
 And the second added, "But the wedding will be merry, for bears dance
well."  
 The bride-to-be said nothing and did not let them irritate her. 
Bearskin, however, traveled about the world from one place to another, did good 
wherever he could, and gave generously to the poor that they might pray for him. 
 
 Finally, at dawn on the last day of the seven years, he went once more 
out to the heath, and seated himself beneath the circle of trees. Before long 
the wind began to howl, and the devil stood before him, looking at him 
angrily. He threw Bearskin's old jacket to him and demanded the return of his own 
green one.  
 "We haven't gotten that far yet," answered Bearskin. "First
of all you have to clean me up."  
 Whether the devil wanted to or not, he had to fetch water and wash off
Bearskin, comb his hair, and cut his nails. After this he looked like a 
brave soldier and was much better looking than he had ever been before.  
 When the devil was safely gone Bearskin was quite lighthearted. He went 
into the town, purchased a splendid velvet jacket, seated himself in a carriage
drawn by four white horses, and drove to his bride's house. No one 
recognized him. The father took him for a distinguished colonel and led him into the 
room where his daughters were sitting. He was given a seat between the two 
oldest ones. They poured wine for him, served him the finest things to eat, and
thought that they had never seen a more handsome man in all the world. 
 
 The bride-to-be, however, sat across from him in her black dress 
without raising her eyes or speaking a word. Finally he asked the father if he 
would give him one of his daughters for a wife, whereupon the two oldest ones 
jumped up and ran into their bedrooms to put on splendid dresses, for each of 
them thought that she was the chosen one.  
 As soon as he was alone with his bride-to-be, the stranger brought out 
his half of the ring and dropped it into a glass of wine, which he handed 
across the table to her. She took the wine, but when she had drunk it and found 
the half ring lying at the bottom, her heart began to beat. She took the other
half, which she wore on a ribbon around her neck, put them together, and 
saw that the two pieces matched perfectly.  
 Then he said, "I am your betrothed bridegroom, whom you saw as
Bearskin. Through God's grace I have regained my human form and have 
become clean again."  
 He went to her, embraced her, and gave her a kiss. In the meantime the 
two sisters came back in full dress. When they saw that the youngest sister 
had received the handsome man, and heard that he was Bearskin, they ran out 
filled with anger and rage. One of them drowned herself in the well. The other 
hanged herself on a tree.  
 That evening, someone knocked at the door, and when the bridegroom 
opened it, it was the devil in his green jacket, who said, "You see, I now have
two souls for the one of yours."