There was once a merchant that had three daughters, and he loved them
better than himself. Now it happened that he had to go a long journey to
buy some goods, and when he was just starting he said to them, "What shall
I bring you back, my dears?"
 And the eldest daughter asked to have a necklace; and the second
daughter wished to have a gold chain; but the youngest daughter said,
"Bring back yourself, papa, and that is what I want the most."
 "Nonsense, child," said her father, "you must say something that I may
remember to bring back for you."
 "So," she said, "then bring me back a rose, father."
 Well, the merchant went on his journey and did his business and bought
a pearl necklace for his eldest daughter, and a gold chain for his second
daughter; but he knew it was no use getting a rose for the youngest while
he was so far away because it would fade before he got home. So he made up
his mind he would get a rose for her the day he got near his house.
 When all his merchanting was done he rode off home and forgot all about
the rose till he was near his house; then he suddenly remembered what he
had promised his youngest daughter, and looked about to see if he could
find a rose. Near where he had stopped he saw a great garden, and getting
off his horse he wandered about in it till he found a lovely rosebush; and
he plucked the most beautiful rose he could see on it. At that moment he
heard a crash like thunder, and looking around he saw a huge monster --
two tusks in his mouth and fiery eyes surrounded by bristles, and horns
coming out of its head and spreading over its back.
 "Mortal," said the beast, "who told you you might pluck my roses?"
 "Please, sir," said the merchant in fear and terror for his life, "I
promised my daughter to bring her home a rose and forgot about it till the
last moment, and then I saw your beautiful garden and thought you would
not miss a single rose, or else I would have asked your permission."
 "Thieving is thieving," said the beast, "whether it be a rose or a
diamond; your life is forfeit."
 The merchant fell on his knees and begged for his life for the sake of
his three daughters who had none but him to support them.
 "Well, mortal, well," said the beast, "I grant your life on one
condition: Seven days from now you must bring this youngest daughter of
yours, for whose sake you have broken into my garden, and leave her here
in your stead. Otherwise swear that you will return and place yourself at
my disposal."
 So the merchant swore, and taking his rose mounted his horse and rode
home.
 As soon as he got into his house his daughters came rushing round him,
clapping their hands and showing their joy in every way, and soon he gave
the necklace to his eldest daughter, the chain to his second daughter, and
then he gave the rose to his youngest, and as he gave it he sighed. 
 "Oh, thank you, father," they all cried.
 But the youngest said, "Why did you sigh so deeply when you gave me my
rose?"
 "Later on I will tell you," said the merchant.
 So for several days they lived happily together, though the merchant
wandered about gloomy and sad, and nothing his daughters could do would
cheer him up till at last he took his youngest daughter aside and said to
her, "Bella, do you love your father?"
 "Of course I do, father, of course I do."
 "Well, now you have a chance of showing it"; and then he told her of
all that had occurred with the beast when he got the rose for her. Bella
was very sad, as you can well think, and then she said, "Oh, father, it
was all on account of me that you fell into the power of this beast; so I
will go with you to him; perhaps he will do me no harm; but even if he
does -- better harm to me than evil to my dear father."
 So next day the merchant took Bella behind him on his horse, as was the
custom in those days, and rode off to the dwelling of the beast. And when
he got there and they alighted from his horse the doors of the house
opened, and what do you think they saw there! Nothing. So they went up the
steps and went through the hall, and went into the dining room, and there
they saw a table spread with all manner of beautiful glasses and plates
and dishes and napery, with plenty to eat upon it. So they waited and they
waited, thinking that the owner of the house would appear, till at last
the merchant said, "Let's sit down and see what will happen then." And
when they sat down invisible hands passed them things to eat and to drink,
and they ate and drank to their heart's content. And when they arose from
the table it arose too and disappeared through the door as if it were
being carried by invisible servants.
 Suddenly there appeared before them the beast who said to the merchant,
"Is this your youngest daughter?"
 And when he had said that it was, he said, "Is she willing to stop here
with me?"
 And then he looked at Bella who said, in a trembling voice, "Yes, sir."
 "Well, no harm shall befall you." With that he led the merchant down to
his horse and told him he might come that day each week to visit his
daughter. Then the beast returned to Bella and said to her, "This house
with all that therein is is yours; if you desire aught, clap your hands
and say the word and it shall be brought unto you." And with that he made
a sort of bow and went away.
 So Bella lived on in the home with the beast and was waited on by
invisible servants and had whatever she liked to eat and to drink; but she
soon got tired of the solitude and, next day, when the beast came to her,
though he looked so terrible, she had been so well treated that she had
lost a great deal of her terror of him. So they spoke together about the
garden and about the house and about her father's business and about all
manner of things, so that Bella lost altogether her fear of the beast.
Shortly afterwards her father came to see her and found her quite happy,
and he felt much less dread of her fate at the hands of the beast.
 So it went on for many days, Bella seeing and talking to the beast
every day, till she got quite to like him, until one day the beast did not
come at his usual time, just after the midday meal, and Bella quite missed
him. So she wandered about the garden trying to find him, calling out his
name, but received no reply. At last she came to the rosebush from which
her father had plucked the rose, and there, under it, what do you think
she saw! There was the beast lying huddled up without any life or motion.
Then Bella was sorry indeed and remembered all the kindness that the beast
had shown her; and she threw herself down by it and said, "Oh, Beast,
Beast, why did you die? I was getting to love you so much."
 No sooner had she said this than the hide of the beast split in two and
out came the most handsome young prince who told her that he had been
enchanted by a magician and that he could not recover his natural form
unless a maiden should, of her own accord, declare that she loved him.
 Thereupon the prince sent for the merchant and his daughters, and he
was married to Bella, and they all lived happy together ever afterwards.