Once there lived poor people who had a son named Benedict. He was eighteen years old, but he had not yet gotten out of bed. One day his father said to him: "Benedict, get up. It's finally time you think about work."  
Benedict got up and hired himself out as a servant to a nearby farmer. As wages he agreed to a load of grain, which he was to receive at the end of one year. He further demanded that he never would have to get up before five o'clock, and that he could eat as much as he wanted. The farmer agreed to these conditions.   
The next morning, everyone in the house had to get up at two o'clock to bring oak trees from the forest. The master also called Benedict, but he pretended to be deaf, and he got up not a minute earlier or later than the time agreed to.  
The farmer's wife called Benedict to eat his soup and presented him with a large pot full of soup.  
"What?" cried Benedict. "Is that all? I need a tub of soup and four loaves of bread."  
The farmer's wife cried out, but her husband had promised the servant that he could eat until he was no longer hungry, so she had to serve him whatever he wanted.  
After Benedict had eaten, the farmer ordered him to get the five best horses out of the stable, hitch them to a big wagon, and go to the forest to look for the other servants. Benedict took the best horses and rode into the forest, but he didn't bother to look for the others. He took four oak logs, put them on his wagon, and wanted to go home, but the horses were unable to move the wagon.  
"What? You don't want to pull!" cried Benedict.  
He loaded another oak log and then another, and then lashed out at the team. But shouting and hitting didn't help. The horses wouldn't move. He unhitched them, loaded them onto the wagon and pulled it himself to the farmhouse.   
The other servants, who had already gone out before Benedict, came home long after him, because they were stopped by a mighty cliff.  
The farmer was frightened that such a strong man was in his service. He sent Benedict to cut down a ten-acre forest. He was to be finished before evening, otherwise he would be thrown out. Benedict went into the forest and sat down at the foot of a tree. Around noon when a maid brought him his tub of soup, she found him asleep.   
"What? Haven't you started work yet?" she asked him.   
 "Mind the kitchen, but not me," he answered her.   
When she brought him his afternoon snack he still hadn't started, but before evening the whole forest was cut down, and Benedict had returned home. His master couldn't help but be amazed.  
The next day he ordered Benedict to spend the night in a mill that was haunted by ghosts, and from which no one had returned. Benedict went to the mill in the evening and made himself at home in its kitchen. At midnight he heard the rattling of chains. A devil was just coming down the chimney.   
"What do you want here?" asked Benedict.  
Without waiting for an answer, he killed the devil. The next morning he returned to the farmhouse.  
Not knowing how to get rid of Benedict, the master sent him with a letter to his son, who was the captain of Besançon. It was thirty miles away. Benedict took a horse, carried it on his shoulders for fifteen miles, then mounted it and rode the remaining fifteen miles. Arriving in Besançon, he handed the farmer's letter to the captain. The letter said that the bearer should be given a warm welcome, that he should be given as much food as he wanted, but that he should be killed when the opportunity arose.  
One day, as Benedict was taking a walk, the captain shot at him. But Benedict just shook himself and calmly continued on his way.  
"How are you, Benedict?" asked the captain.  
"Quite well, except for the flies. They bother me, but they're not dangerous."  
The captain then had cannonballs fired at him, but with the same effect.  
Tired of the fight, he sent him back to the farmer.  
The farmer now ordered Benedict to clean out a well five hundred feet deep, which had been buried for five hundred years. Benedict was soon done with that. While he was still in the well, a thousand-pound millstone was thrown down on him to kill him. The millstone had a hole in the middle, and it fell on his shoulders, forming a kind of collar. However, Benedict did not feel it in the slightest. A bell weighing twenty thousand pounds was then thrown down, and it fell on his head.  
Everyone thought he was dead, but soon he came up from the bottom of the well, tore the bell from his head and said: "Here is my nightcap, do not soil it for me." Then he took down the millstone and cried: "This is my collar, I must save it for next Sunday. But, dear sir, the one year is over, isn't it?"  
"Yes," replied the farmer.  
"Then give me my load of grain."  
They gave him two sacks full.  
"What do you mean?" cried Benedict. "I can carry more."  
Another eight sacks were brought.  
"I'll carry that with my little finger."  
Thirty-two sacks were brought.  
"That's just for two fingers."  
The farmer now explained to him that he could not give him more than a hundred sacks. Satisfied with this, Benedict loaded up the sacks and returned to his parents.