Not far from Dalby, Billy Beg and Tom Beg, two humpback cobblers, lived 
together on a lonely croft.  Billy Beg was sharper and cleverer than Tom 
Beg, who was always at his command.  One day Billy Beg gave Tom a staff, 
and quoth he, "Tom Beg, go to the mountain and fetch home the white 
sheep."  
Tom Beg took the staff and went to the mountain, but he could not find the 
white sheep.  At last, when he was far from home, and dusk was coming on, 
he began to think that he had best go back.  The night was fine, and stars 
and a small crescent moon were in the sky.  No sound was to be heard but 
the curlew's sharp whistle.  Tom was hastening home, and had almost 
reached Glen Rushen, when a grey mist gathered, and he lost his way.  But 
it was not long before the mist cleared, and Tom Beg found himself in a 
green glen such as he had never seen before, though he thought he knew 
every glen within five miles of him, for he was born and reared in the 
neighborhood.  He was marveling and wondering where he could be, when he 
heard a far-away sound drawing nearer to him.  
"Aw," said he to himself, "there's more than myself afoot on the mountains 
tonight; I'll have company."  
The sound grew louder.  First, it was like the humming of bees, then like 
the rushing of Glen Meay waterfall, and last it was like the marching and 
the murmur of a crowd.  It was the fairy host.  Of a sudden the glen was 
full of fine horses and of little people riding on them, with the lights 
on their red caps shining like the stars above and making the night as 
bright as day.  There was the blowing of horns, the waving of flags, the 
playing of music, and the barking of many little dogs.  Tom Beg thought 
that he had never seen anything so splendid as all he saw there.  In the 
midst of the drilling and dancing and singing one of them spied Tom, and 
then Tom saw coming towards him the grandest little man he had ever set 
eyes upon, dressed in gold and silver, and silk shining like a raven's 
wing.  
"It is a bad time you have chosen to come this way," said the little man, 
who was the king.  
"Yes; but it is not here that I'm wishing to be though," said Tom.  
Then said the king, "Are you one of us tonight, Tom?"  
"I am surely," said Tom.  
"Then," said the king, "it will be your duty to take the password.  You 
must stand at the foot of the glen, and as each regiment goes by, you must 
take the password: it is 'Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 
Saturday.'"  
"I'll do that with a heart and a half," said Tom.  
At daybreak the fiddlers took up their fiddles; the Fairy army set itself 
in order; the fiddlers played before them out of the glen; and sweet that 
music was.  Each regiment gave the password to Tom as it went by, "Monday, 
Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday"; and last of all came the 
king, and he, too, gave it, "Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, 
Saturday."   
Then he called in Manx to one of his men, "Take the hump from this 
fellow's back," and before the words were out of his mouth the hump was 
whisked off Tom Beg's back and thrown into the hedge.   
How proud now was Tom, who so found himself the straightest man in the 
Isle of Man!  He went down the mountain and came home early in the morning 
with light heart and eager step.  Billy Beg wondered greatly when he saw 
Tom Beg so straight and strong, and when Tom Beg had rested and refreshed 
himself he told his story how he had met the Fairies who came every night 
to Glen Rushen to drill.  
The next night Billy Beg set off along the mountain road and came at last 
to the green glen.  About midnight he heard the trampling of horses, the 
lashing of whips, the barking of dogs, and a great hullabaloo, and, 
behold, the Fairies and their king, their dogs and their horses, all at 
drill in the glen as Tom Beg had said.  
When they saw the humpback they all stopped, and one came forward and very 
crossly asked his business.  
"I am one of Yourselves for the night, and should be glad to do you some 
service," said Billy Beg.  
So he was set to take the password, "Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, 
Friday, Saturday."  And at daybreak the King said, "It's time for us to be 
off," and up came regiment after regiment giving Billy Beg the password, 
"Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday."    
Last of all came the king with his men. and gave the password also, 
"Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday, Friday, Saturday."  
"AND SUNDAY," says Billy Beg, thinking himself clever. Then there was a 
great outcry.  
"Get the hump that was taken off that fellow's back last night and put it 
on this man's back," said the king, with flashing eyes, pointing to the 
hump that lay under the hedge.  
Before the words were well out of his mouth the hump was clapped onto 
Billy Beg's back.  
"Now," said the King, "be off, and if ever I find you here again, I will 
clap another hump on to your front!"  
And on that they all marched away with one great shout, and left poor 
Billy Beg standing where they had found him, with a hump growing on each 
shoulder.  And he came home next day dragging one foot after another, with 
a wizened face and as cross as two sticks, with his two humps on his back, 
and if they are not off they are there still.