I one day was looking over the different monuments in Cranbrook Church in 
Kent, when in the chancel my attention was arrested by one erected to the 
memory of Sir Richard Baker. The gauntlet, gloves, helmet, and spurs were 
(as is often the case in monumental erections of Elizabethan date) 
suspended over the tomb. What chiefly attracted my attention was the color 
of the gloves, which was red.   
The old woman who acted as my cicerone, seeing me look at them, said, 
"Aye, miss, those are Bloody Baker's gloves; their red color comes from 
the blood he shed."   
This speech awakened my curiosity to hear more, and with very little 
pressing I induced my old guide to tell me the following strange tale:   
The baker family had formerly large possessions in Cranbrook, but in the 
reign of Edward VI great misfortunes fell on them; by extravagance and 
dissipation they gradually lost all their lands, until an old house in the 
village (now used as the poor- house) was all that remained to them.   
The sole representative of the family remaining at the accession of Queen 
Mary was Sir Richard Baker. He had spent some years abroad in consequence 
of a duel; but when, said my informant, Bloody Queen Mary reigned, he 
thought he might safely return, as he was a Papist.   
When he came to Cranbrook he took up his abode in his old house. He only 
brought one foreign servant with him, and these two lived alone. Very soon 
strange stories began to be whispered respecting unearthly shrieks having 
been heard frequently to issue at nightfall from his house. Many people of 
importance were stopped and robbed in the Glastonbury woods, and many 
unfortunate travelers were missed and never heard of more.   
Richard Baker still continued to live in seclusion, but he gradually 
repurchased his alienated property, although he was known to have spent 
all he possessed before he left England.   
But wickedness was not always to prosper. He formed an apparent attachment 
to a young lady in the neighborhood, remarkable for always wearing a great 
many jewels. He often pressed her to come and see his old house, telling 
her he had many curious things he wished to show her. She had always 
resisted fixing a day for her visit, but happening to walk within a short 
distance of his house, she determined to surprise him with a visit. Her 
companion, a lady older than herself, endeavored to dissuade her from 
doing so, but she would not be turned from her purpose. They knocked at 
the door, but no one answered them; they, however, discovered it was not 
locked, and determined to enter. At the head of the stairs hung a parrot, 
which, on their passing, cried out:  
 
Peepoh, pretty lady, be not too bold,   
Or your red blood will soon run cold. 
  
And cold did run the blood of the adventurous damsel when, on opening one 
of the room doors, she found it filled with the dead bodies of murdered 
persons, chiefly women.   
Just then they heard a noise, and on looking out of the window saw Bloody 
Baker and his servant bringing in the murdered body of a lady. Nearly dead 
with fear, they concealed themselves in a recess under the staircase.   
As the murderers with their dead burden passed by them, the hand of the 
unfortunate murdered lady hung in the baluster of the stairs. With an oath 
Bloody Baker chopped it off, and it fell into the lap of one of the 
concealed ladies. As soon as the murderers had passed by, the ladies ran 
away, having the presence of mind to carry with them the dead hand, on one 
of the fingers of which was a ring.   
On reaching home they told their story, and in confirmation of it 
displayed the ring. All the families who had lost relatives mysteriously 
were then told of what had been found out, and they determined to ask 
Baker to a large party, apparently in a friendly manner, but to have 
constables concealed ready to take him into custody.   
He came, suspecting nothing, and then the lady told him all she had seen, 
pretending it was a dream.   
"Fair lady," said he, "dreams are nothing; they are but fables."   
"They may be fables," said she; "but is this a fable?" and she produced 
the hand and ring.   
Upon this the constables rushed in and took him; and the tradition further 
says, he was burnt, notwithstanding Queen Mary tried to save him, on 
account of the religion he professed.