One sultry summer day, while the little boy was playing not far from
Uncle Remus's cabin, a heavy black cloud made its appearance in the west,
and quickly obscured the sky. It sent a brisk gale before it, as if to
clear the path of leaves and dust. Presently there was a blinding flash of
lightning, a snap and a crash, and, with that, the child took to his
heels, and ran to Uncle Remus, who was standing in his door. 
 "There now!" he exclaimed, before the echoes of the thunder had rolled
away.  
 
 That dust and wind and rain puts me in mind of the time when old Brer
Rabbit went away off in the woods until he came to the Rainmaker's house.
He knocked and went in, and he asked the Rainmaker if he couldn't fix it
up so they could have a race between Brer Dust and Cousin Rain, to see
which could run the fastest. The Rainmaker growled and grumbled, but by
and by he agreed, but he said that if it was anybody but Brer Rabbit, he
wouldn't give it but one thought. 
 Well, they fixed the day, they did, and then Brer Rabbit put out to
where the creatures were staying and told them the news. They didn't know
how Brer Rabbit knew, but they all wanted to see the race. 
 Now, he and the Rainmaker had fixed it up so that the race would be
right down the middle of the big road, and when the day came, that's where
he made the creatures stand -- Brer Bear at the bend of the road, Brer
Wolf a little further off, and Brer Fox at a point where the crossroads
were. Brer Coon and Brer Possum and the others he scattered about up and
down the road. 
 To them who have to wait, it seems like the sun stops, and all the
clocks with him. Brer Bear did some growling, Brer Wolf some howling, and
Brer Possum some laughing, but after a while a cloud came up from
somewhere. It wasn't such a big cloud, but Brer Rabbit knew that Cousin
Rain was in there along with Uncle Wind. The cloud crept up, it did, until
it got right over the big road, and then it kind of dropped down a little
closer to the ground. It looked like it kind of stopped, like a buggy, for
Cousin Rain to get out, so there would be a fair start. Well he got out,
because the creatures could see him, and then Uncle Wind, he got out. 
 And then, gentlemen, the race began to commence. Uncle Wind helped them
both. He had his bellows with him, and he blew them! Brer Dust got up from
where he was lying and came down the road just a-whirling. He struck old
Brer Bear first, then Brer Wolf, and then Brer Fox, and after that all the
other creatures, and it came mighty near suffocating them! Never in all
your born days have you ever heard such coughing and sneezing, such
snorting and wheezing! And they all looked like they were painted red.
Brer Bear sneezed so hard that he had to lie down in the road, and Brer
Dust came mighty near burying him. And it was the same with the other
creatures. They got their ears, their noses, and their eyes full. 
 And then Cousin Rain came along pursuing Brer Dust, and he came mighty
near drowning them. He left them covered with mud, and they were worse off
than before. It was the longest time before they could get the mud out of
their eyes and ears. When they got so they could see a little bit, they
took notice that Brer Rabbit, instead of being full of mud, was as dry as
a chip, if not dryer. 
 It made them so mad that they all put out after him and tried their
level best to catch him, but if there was anything in the round world that
Brer Rabbit's got, it's supple feet, and it wasn't no time before the
other creatures couldn't see hide nor hair of him! All the same, Brer
Rabbit hadn't bargained to have two races the same day. 
 
 "But, Uncle Remus," said the little boy, "which beat, Brother Dust or
Cousin Rain?" 
 The old man stirred uneasily in his chair, and rubbed his chin with his
hand. "They tell me," he responded cautiously, "that when Cousin Rain
couldn't see anything of Brother Dust, he thought he was beaten, but he
hollered out, 'Brer Dust, whereabouts are you?' and Brer Dust he hollered
back, 'You'll have to excuse me. I fell down in the mud and can't run any
more!'"