In a castle there once lived a count by the name of Rudolf. His wife had a
golden cross on her forehead. Their daughter Adelheid had the same mark on
her forehead. When she was twenty years old her mother suddenly died.
 The count's and his daughter's sorrow and grief were endless. After the
mother's burial, the father and his child locked themselves in their rooms
and were seldom seen.
 After a month had passed, the count had his daughter brought to his
room and said to her, "Dear child, you know how much I loved your mother.
I cannot live without a wife. Therefore I am going out into the world to
seek a wife who -- like your blessed mother -- has a golden cross on her
forehead. If I do not find such a woman within a year and a day, then I
will marry you."
 When Adelheid heard these words she was very upset, and she silently
withdrew. The next morning Count Rudolf departed, promising to return
within a year and a day.
 When Adelheid was alone she considered whether or not it would be
possible for her father to find a woman with such a cross. Then she
remembered that her mother had once told her that except for her and
Adelheid, no one on the entire earth had such a cross.
 She decided to go away. She would rather earn her bread with the work
of her own hands than to eat the finest tidbits at her father's table as
his wife. She entrusted one of her loyal servants with her plan, and they
made preparations to depart.
 She secretly loaded her valuables, her jewelry, her gold, and her
clothes into several large carriages. During the night she drove off with
them, accompanied by her servant Gotthold and several others who were
loyal to her. They came to a large city where she rented a house and moved
into it with her servants.
 Adelheid had often stated that she wanted to earn her bread with the
work of her own hands. Therefore Gotthold sought a position for his
mistress in the city. He learned that there was an opening for a kitchen
maid in the castle of Prince Adolf. Thus he went to the chief cook and
asked him if he would be willing to hire his niece, for that is what he
called the countess. As he talked further with the chief cook, Gotthold
recognized in him a friend whom he had not seen for many years. He told
him that his brother had died, leaving a daughter in his care. The chief
cook agreed to hire her.
 The loyal servant happily returned to the countess and remained in the
rented house.
 Adelheid now dyed her face, neck, and hands brown; covered her golden
cross and her hair with a large head-scarf; took off her magnificent
robes, putting on instead old, dirty, torn clothing; and presented herself
to the chief cook.
 She was given a small room where she could sleep and keep her things.
Slowly she grew accustomed to her job, even though she was exhausted by
the hard work.
 Until now she had not yet seen the prince. One day he invited all his
friends and acquaintances to a great ball. On the morning of the ball,
Adelheid was sweeping the staircase, when the prince, without being seen
by her, walked up and tipped over the dust pail, thus dirtying his boots.
As she was fleeing he angrily ripped the broom from her hands and threw it
at her.
 That evening as the hall was filling with people, the young countess
went to the chief cook and asked him for permission to go to the ball.
 He replied, "No, I cannot allow you to do that. What if the prince were
to find out!"
 Adelheid continued to beg, until he finally said, "Just go. But don't
stay too late, and if you get anything, bring some back for me as well."
 Now she went to Gotthold's house, changed her clothes, washed away the
color, and ordered up a splendid carriage in which she rode to the
prince's.
 When the guests saw the splendid carriage approaching in the distance
they all hurried outside and said, "A foreign lady! A beautiful lady!"
 The prince hurried toward her, lifted her from her carriage, and led
her up the stairs. She had to dance with him the entire evening and to sit
next to him at the table. After eating, he asked her what her name was and
where she came from.
 "My name is Adelheid, and I come from Broomthrow," replied the
countess.
 At twelve o'clock she left, and with her the majority of guests.
 Arriving at home she quickly got undressed, colored herself brown, and
took three gold pieces which she gave to the chief cook, claiming that she
had stood behind a door and had received the gold from an old woman.
 The next morning the prince looked for Broomthrow on his maps, but he
could not find it. He wanted to ask her about her home city once again,
but because he did not know where she lived he invited his friends to a
second ball.
 On the morning of the second ball Adelheid was brushing her clothing
when the prince, without being seen, came up the stairs. She turned around
and dropped the brush, which fell onto the prince's feet. Angrily Adolf
picked up the brush and threw it at the embarrassed countess's head.
 That evening the chief cook once again allowed her to go the ball, and
she took advantage of his permission. At the ball Adolf told her that he
had not been able to find Broomthrow.
 "How could you be looking for Broomthrow?" she replied. "I said
Brushthrow."
 Once again they danced together, and as midnight approached she went
home. She brought the chief cook a gold band, claiming that she had
received it as a gift.
 The next morning the prince looked for Brushthrow, but could not find
it. He then invited his friends and acquaintances to a third ball, which
was to be even more magnificent than the first two. 
 On the eve of the ball, shortly before the festivities were to begin,
Adelheid, contrary to custom, was combing her hair in the castle. The
prince, displeased because the foreign lady had not arrived yet, walked up
the stairs just as the countess dropped her comb. Prince Adolf picked it
up and threw it at the kitchen servant's head. She quickly withdrew,
changed her clothes, and went to the ball.
 At the table the prince said that he had not been able to find
Brushthrow anywhere.
 "I can believe that," she said. "I called the place Combthrow." He
didn't want to believe her, but she argued with him until he finally gave
in. Before she left he placed a ring on her finger, without her noticing
it.
 The next morning the prince was not well, and he asked a chief cook to
make soup for him. The latter announced this in the kitchen, and Adelheid
asked for permission to make the soup. But he said, "If you put something
in the soup that doesn't belong there, then I am the one who will be
punished."
 She replied, "I will not put anything wrong in it." She made the soup,
and without being seen, she threw the prince's ring into the soup.
 The prince poured the soup into a dish and heard something jingle. He
felt around and fished out the ring. Amazed, he then asked who had made
the soup.
 "The kitchen maid" was the answer.
 Adolph ordered his servant, "Bring her here."
 She hurriedly put on the dress that she had worn the previous evening,
and when the prince saw her, he recognized his dance partner. She now had
to tell him her life story, and soon afterward he married her.
 In the meantime her father had come home, and when he discovered that
his daughter had already married, he had to accept his fate.