There was a time when Brer Lion was sort of playing overseer with the 
other creatures. It seems like he got the idea that all 
of them had to pay him a toll, because he was the strongest and the most 
ferocious. He claimed one out of every family: one 
sheep from the sheep, one goat from the goats, and one from all the kinds. 
 
 By and by, after a long time, he sent word to Brer Rabbit that his 
turn had come, and Brer Rabbit sent back word that 
everything was all right. Of course this made old Mrs. Rabbit and the 
children feel mighty bad. The children sat around 
whimpering and sniffling, and old Mrs. Rabbit went about crying and wiping 
her eyes on her apron. But Brer Rabbit, he sat up 
and smoked his cigar and told them to quit worrying and to learn how to 
not be afraid.  
 He said, "Old woman, if I'm not back by suppertime, just set my 
vittles down there on the hearth so they'll keep sort of 
warm."  
 Old Mrs. Rabbit said that instead of wanting vittles, he'd be vittles 
himself, and then she sniffled worse and worse.  
 But Brer Rabbit just hooted at her, and then he took down his walking 
cane and set out to see Brer Lion.  
 The little rabbits hollered out, "Good-bye, daddy!" and Brer Rabbit 
hollered back, "So long!"  
 Old Mrs. Rabbit looked after him, she did, and then she flung her 
apron over her head and just boo-hooed.  
 But Brer Rabbit marched down the road as happy if he were going to a 
frolic. He marched on, he did, and just before he 
got to the place where old Brer Lion stayed, he hid his walking cane in 
the fence corner, rumpled up his hair, and drew himself in 
until he looked like he wasn't any bigger than a pound of soap after a 
hard day's washing.  
 Then he went where there was a big, deep spring a little piece away 
from the road, and he looked at himself in the water. 
He sort of pulled back his ears and made himself look topsy-turvy, and 
then he closed one eye and shook his fist at his reflection 
in the water.  
 He went back to the big road, he did, and crept along like he was 
ailing -- limping first on one foot and then on the other 
one, and by and by he came to the place where old Brer Lion was staying. 
 
 Brer Rabbit sort of dragged himself along and made a bow. Brer Lion 
looked at him sideways and asked him where he was 
going. Brer Rabbit said he was all the more willing to come, became it was 
his turn, and he had been feeling poorly for a long 
time. He talked mighty weak and trembly.  
 Brer Lion looked at him closely and said, "You won't make a mouthful. 
It's time that I eat you. I'm just getting good and 
hungry."  
 Brer Rabbit said, "Yes, sir. I know I'm not fat, and I suspect I have 
lots of fleas on me, but I'm mighty willing. I've got a 
bad cough, and I'm tired of being sick. I'm just about as fat as the mule 
the man had, and he had to tie a knot in its tail to keep it 
from slipping through the collar."  
 Brer Lion looked at him and thought that Brer Rabbit was so scared he 
was talking weaker and weaker.  
 Brer Rabbit said, "While I was coming along just now I saw a creature 
that was almost as big and fat as you are, and I said 
to myself that I wished to goodness that I was as fat as he was, so Brer 
Lion could have a good dinner."  
 Brer Lion said, "Who was he?"  
 Brer Rabbit said, "I didn't ask him his name. He refused to respond to 
my howdy, and he looked so ferocious that I got out 
of there."  
 Brer Lion said, "Come, show me where he is."  
 Brer Rabbit said, "I'd do it in a minute, Brer Lion, but I'm afraid 
he'll hurt you."  
 Brer Lion sort of bristled up at that. He said, "Hurt whom? Come on 
and go with me to where he is, and I'll show you 
who'll get hurt, and that in short order!"  
 Brer Rabbit shook his head. He said, "You'd better eat me, Brer Lion. 
I'm not much, but I'm something, and that other 
creature that I saw will surely hurt you. He's got claws and he's got 
teeth, because I saw them. Don't go where he is, Brer Lion, 
if you have any friendly feelings for your family. That creature will 
surely cripple you!"  
 This made Brer Lion mighty mad. He said, "Get right into the road and 
show me where he is!"  
 Brer Rabbit said, "Well, if I need to go, Brer Lion, I'll go. I told 
you so, and that's all I can do."  
 They went on, they did, and Brer Rabbit took Brer Lion to the spring. 
 
 When they got there, Brer Rabbit looked around and said, "He was right 
around here somewhere, and he's not so mighty 
far off now, because I feel it in my bones."  
 Then he crept up, he did, and looked into the spring. As he did this, 
he let out a yell and jumped back. "Ouch, Brer Lion! 
He's in there! Let's run! He'll get us for sure!"  
 Brer Lion walked up to the spring and looked in. Sure enough, there 
was a big creature looking back at him.  
 Brer Lion hollered at him. The creature in the spring didn't say 
anything. Brer Lion shook his head. The creature shook his. 
Brer Lion showed his teeth. The creature grinned at him. They kept on this 
way until by and by Brer Lion got so mad that he 
jumped into the spring head foremost.  
 When he was in there, he couldn't get out again, and so there he was, 
strangled with water and drowned for the want of 
sense and breath.  
 Brer Rabbit capered around there some little time, and then he put out 
for home, and when he got there, he took his 
children on his knee and told them a mighty tale about how he made out 
with old Brer Lion.