Brer Rabbit was a mighty man at a frolic. I don't expect he'd show up
much in these days, but in the times when the creatures were bossing their
own jobs, Brer Rabbit was up for pretty nigh everything that was going on,
if there wasn't too much work in it. There couldn't be a dance or a
quilting anywhere around but what he'd be there. He was the first to come
and the last to go. 
 Well, there was one time when he went too far and stayed too late,
because a big rain came during the time when they were playing and
dancing, and when Brer Rabbit put out for home, he found that a big
freshet had come and gone. The drains had got to be creeks, the creeks had
got to be rivers, and the rivers -- well, I'm not going to tell you what
the rivers were, because you'd think that I'd told the truth good-bye. 
 By making big jumps and going out of his way, Brer Rabbit managed to
get as close to home as the creek, but when he got there, the creek was so
wide that it made him feel like he'd been lost so long that his family had
forgotten him. Many and many a time he'd crossed that creek on a log, but
the log was gone, and the water was spread out all over creation. The
water was wide, but that wasn't more than half -- it looked like it was
the wettest water that Brer Rabbit had ever laid eyes on. 
 There was a ferry there for times like this, but it looked like it was
a bigger freshet than what they had counted on. Brer Rabbit, he sat on the
bank and wiped the damp out of his face and eyes, and then he hollered for
the man that ran the ferry. He hollered and hollered, and by and by he
heard someone answer him, and he looked a little closer, and there was the
man -- his name was Jerry -- way up in the top limbs of a tree. And he
looked still closer, and he saw that Jerry had company, because there was
old Brer Bear sitting at the foot of the tree waiting for Jerry to come
down, so he could tell him howdy. 
 Well, sir, Brer Rabbit took notice that there was something more than
dampness between them, and he started to holler again, and he hollered so
loud and he hollered so long that he woke up old Brer Alligator. 
 Now it didn't make old Brer Alligator feel good to be woken up at that
hour, because he'd just had a nice supper of pine-nuts and sweet potatoes
and was lying out at full length on his mud bed. He allowed to himself, he
did, "Who in the nation is this trying to holler the bottom out of the
creek?" 
 He listened, and then he turned over and listened again. He shut one
eye, and then he shut the other one, but there was no sleeping in that
neighborhood. 
 Jerry in the tree, he hollered back, "Can't come -- got company!" 
 Brer Alligator, he heard this, and he said to himself that if nobody
else can come, he can, and he rose to the top with no more fuss than a
featherbed makes when you leave it alone. He rose, he did, and his two
eyes looked exactly like two bullets floating on the water. He rose and
winked his eye and asked Brer Rabbit howdy, and more especially how was
his daughter. 
 Brer Rabbit, he said that there was no telling how his daughter was,
because when he left home her head was swelling. He said that some of the
neighbors' children had come and flung rocks at her and one of them had
hit her on top of the head right where the cowlick is, and he had had to
run after the doctor. 
 Brer Alligator allowed, "You don't tell me, Brer Rabbit, that it's come
to this! Your children getting chunked by your neighbors' children. Well,
well, well! I wish you'd tell me where it's all going to end. Why it'll
get after a while that there's no peace anywhere except at my house in the
bed of the creek." 
 Brer Rabbit said, "Isn't it the truth? And not only do Brer Fox's
children chunk my children on their cowlicks, but no sooner have I gone
after the doctor than here comes the creek a-rising. I may be wrong, but
I'm not scared to say that it beats anything I have ever laid eyes on.
Over yonder in the far wood is where my daughter is lying with a headache,
and here is her pa, and between us is the boiling creek. If I were to try
to wade, ten to one the water would be over my head, and if that's not
bad, all the pills that the doctor gave me would melt in my pocket. And
they might poison me, because the doctor didn't say that they were to be
taken outside." 
 Old Brer Alligator floated on the water like he didn't weigh more than
one of these here postage stamps, and he tried to drop a tear. He groaned,
he did, and floated backwards and forwards like a tired canoe. 
 He said, "Brer Rabbit, if there ever was a rover, you are one. Up you
come and off you go, and there is no more keeping up with you than if you
had wings. If you think you can stay in one place long enough, I'll try to
put you across the creek." 
 Brer Rabbit kind of rubbed his chin while he wiggled his nose. He
allowed, said he, "Brer Gator, how deep is that water that you are
floating in?" 
 Brer Alligator said, "Brer Rabbit, if my old woman and I were to join
heads, and I were to stand on the tip end of my tail, there'd still be
room enough for all of my children before we touched bottom." 
 Brer Rabbit, he fell back like he was going to faint. He allowed, "Brer
Gator, you don't tell me! You surely don't mean those last words! Why you
make me feel like I'm further from home than those who are done lost for
good! How in the name of goodness are you going to put me across this
slippery water?" 
 Brer Alligator, he blew a bubble or two out of his nose, and then he
said, "If you can stand still in one place long enough, I'm going to take
you across on my back. You needn't say "thank you," but I want you to know
that I'm not everybody's water-horse." 
 Brer Rabbit allowed, said he, "I can well believe that, Brer Gator, but
somehow I kind of got a notion that your tail is mighty limber. I hear old
folks say that you can knock a chip from the back of your head with the
tip end of your tail and never half try." 
 Brer Alligator smacked his mouth and said, "Limber my tail may be, Brer
Rabbit, and far reaching, but don't blame me. It was that way when it was
given to me. It's all jointed up according to nature." 
 Brer Rabbit, he studied and he studied, and the more he studied, the
worse he liked it. But he pleased to go home -- there were no two ways
about that -- and he allowed, said he, "I suspect what you say is
somewhere in the neighborhood of the truth, Brer Gator, and more than
that, I believe that I'll go along with you. If you'll ride up a little
closer, I'll make up my mind, so I won't keep you waiting." 
 Brer Alligator, he floated by the side of the bank the same as a cork
out of a pickle bottle. He didn't do like he was in a hurry, because he
dropped a word or two about the weather, and he said that the water was
mighty cold down there in the slushes. But Brer Rabbit took notice that
when he smiled one of his smiles, he showed up a double row of tusks that
looked like they'd do mighty good work in a sawmill. 
 Brer Rabbit, he began to shake like he was having a chill. He allowed,
"I feel that damp, Brer Gator, that I might just as well be in water up to
my chin!" 
 Brer Alligator didn't say anything, but he couldn't hide his tusks.
Brer Rabbit looked up, he looked down, and he looked all around. He
scarcely knew what to do. He allowed, "Brer Gator, your back is mighty
rough. How am I going to ride on it?" 
 Brer Alligator said, "The roughness will help you to hold on, because
you'll have to ride a-straddle. You can just get your feet on the bumps
and kind of brace yourself when you think you see a log floating at us.
You can just sit up there the same as if you were sitting at home in your
rocking chair. 
 Brer Rabbit shook his head, but he got on, he did, and he had no sooner
gotten on than he wished mighty hard that he was off. 
 Brer Alligator said, "You can pant if you want to, but I'll do the
paddling," and he slipped through the water just like he was greased. 
 Brer Rabbit sure was scared, but he kept his eyes open, and by and by
he took notice that Brer Alligator wasn't making for the place where the
landing was at, and he up and said so. He allowed, "Brer Gator, if  I'm
not much mistaken, you're not heading for the landing." 
 Brer Alligator said, "You sure have got mighty good eyes, Brer Rabbit.
I've been waiting for you a long time, and I'm the worst kind of waiter. I
must know you haven't forgot that day in the stubble when you said you
were going to show me Old Man Trouble. Well, you didn't only show him to
me, but you made me shake hands with him. You set the dry grass afire and
burned me scandalously. That's the reason my back is so rough, and that's
the reason my hide is so tough. Well, I've been a-waiting since that time,
and now here you are. You burned me until I had to quench the burning in
the big quagmire." 
 Brer Alligator laughed, but he had the laugh all on his side, because
that was one of the times when Brer Rabbit didn't feel like giggling. He
sat there a-shaking and a-shivering. By and by he allowed, said he, "What
are you going to do, Brer Gator?" 
 Brer Alligator said, "It looks to me like since you set the dry grass
afire, I've been having symptoms. That's what the doctor said. He looked
at my tongue, and he felt my pulse, and he shook his head. He said that
beings he's my friend, he didn't mind telling me that my symptoms are
getting worse than what they have been, and if I don't take something I'll
be falling into one of these here inclines that make folks flabby and
weak." 
 Brer Rabbit, he shook and he shivered. He allowed, "What else did the
doctor say, Brer Gator?" 
 Brer Alligator kept on a-slipping along. He said, "The doctor didn't
only look at my tongue. He measured my breath, and he hit me on my bosom
-- tip-tap-tap! -- and he said there was but one thing that will cure me.
I asked him what it is, and he said it's rabbit gizzard." 
 Brer Alligator slipped and slid along and waited to see what Brer
Rabbit was going to say to that. He didn't have to wait long, because Brer
Rabbit did his thinking like one of these here machines that has lightning
in it. He allowed, he said, "It's a mighty good thing you struck up with
me this day, Brer Gator, because I have exactly the kind of physic you are
looking for. All the neighbors say I'm mighty queer, and I suspect I am,
but queer or not queer, I've long been looking for the gizzard-eater." 
 Brer Alligator didn't say anything. He just slid through the water and
listened to what Brer Rabbit was saying. 
 Brer Rabbit allowed, he said, "The last time I took sick the doctor
came in a hurry, and he sat up with me all night -- not a wink of sleep
did that man get. He said he could tell by the way I was going on, rolling
and tossing, and moaning and groaning, that no physic was going to do me
any good. I've never seen a doctor scratch his head like that doctor did.
He acted like he was stumped, he sure did. He said he had never seen
anybody with my kind of trouble, and he went off and called in one of his
brer doctors, and the two knocked their heads together, and they said my
trouble all comes from having a double gizzard. When my old woman heard
that she just flung her apron over her head and fell back in a dead faint,
and a little more and I'd have had to pay a doctor bill on her account.
When she squalled, some of my children got scared and took to the wood,
and they hadn't all got back when I left home last night." 
 Brer Alligator, he just went a-slipping along through the water. He
listened, but he didn't say anything. 
 Brer Rabbit allowed, said he, "It's the fatal truth, all this that I'm
a-telling you. The doctor, he flew around until he fetched my old woman
to, and then he said there was no need to be skittish on account of my
having a double gizzard, because all I had to do was to be kind of careful
with my chewings and gnawings, and my comings and goings. He said that I'd
have to suffer with it until I find the gizzard-eater. I asked him
whereabouts he is, and he said that I'd know him when I see him, and if I
fail to know him, he'll make himself  known to me. This kind of irritates
me, because when a man's a doctor, and he's got the idea of curing
anybody, there is no need of dealing in riddles. But he said that there
was no use in telling all you know, especially before dinner." 
 Brer Alligator went a-sliding along through the water. He listened and
smacked his mouth, but he didn't say anything. 
 Brer Rabbit, he talked on. He allowed, said he, "And there was one
thing he told me plainer than all the rest. He said that when anybody was
afflicted with the double gizzard, they daresn't cross water with it,
because if there's anything that a double gizzard won't stand, it's the
smell of water." 
 Brer Alligator went slipping along through the water, but he felt like
the time had come when he pleased to say something. He said, "How come you
are crossing water now, if the doctor told you that?" 
 This made Brer Rabbit laugh. He allowed, "Maybe I oughtn't tell you,
but before I can cross water, that double gizzard has got to come out. The
doctor told me that if she ever smells water, there'll be such a swelling
up that my skin won't hold me. And no longer ago than last night, before I
came to cross this creek -- it was a creek then, whatsoever you may call
it now -- I took out my double gizzard and hid it in a hickory hollow. And
if you are the gizzard-eater, now is your chance, because if you put it
off, you may rue the day. If you are in the notion, I'll take you right
there and show you the stump where I hid it at -- and if you want to be
lonesome about it, I'll let you go by yourself and I'll stay right
here." 
 Brer Alligator, he slipped and slid through the water. He said,
"Where'd you say you'd stay?" 
 Brer Rabbit allowed, said he, "I'll stay right here, Brer Gator, or
anywhere else you may choose. I don't care much where I stay or what I do,
so long as I get rid of that double gizzard that's been a-terrifying me.
You better go by yourself, because bad as that double gizzard has done me,
I got kind of a tendersome feeling for it, and I'm afraid if I were to go
along with you and see you grab it, there'd be some boo-hooing done. If
you go by yourself, just rap on the stump and say, 'If you are ready, I'm
ready and a little more so,' and you won't have any trouble with her.
She's hid right in those woods yonder, and the hollow hickory stump isn't
so mighty far from where the bank of the creek ought to be." 
 Brer Gator didn't have much more sense than what it'd take to climb a
fence after someone had pulled it down, and so he kind of slewed himself
around and steered for the woods -- the same woods where there are so many
trees, and where old Sis Owl starts all the whirlwinds by fanning her
wings. Brer Alligator swam and steered until he came close to land, and
when he did that, Brer Rabbit made a big jump and landed on solid ground.
He might have got his feet wet, but if he did, that was all. He allowed,
said he: 
 You poor old Gator, if you'd have known A from Izzard, 
You'd know mighty well that I'd keep my Gizzard.
 
 And with that he was done gone -- done clean gone!