And Adam knew Eve his wife; and she conceived, and bare Cain, and 
said, I have gotten a man from the LORD. 
 And she again bare his brother Abel. And Abel was a keeper of sheep, 
but Cain was a tiller of the ground. 
 And in process of time it came to pass, that Cain brought of the fruit 
of the ground an offering unto the LORD. 
 And Abel, he also brought of the firstlings of his flock and of the 
fat thereof. And the LORD had respect unto Abel and to his offering:
 But unto Cain and to his offering he had not respect. And Cain was 
very wroth, and his countenance fell. 
 And the LORD said unto Cain, Why art thou wroth? and why is thy 
countenance fallen?
 If thou doest well, shalt thou not be accepted? and if thou doest not 
well, sin lieth at the door. And unto thee shall be his desire, and thou 
shalt rule over him. 
 And Cain talked with Abel his brother: and it came to pass, when they 
were in the field, that Cain rose up against Abel his brother, and slew 
him. 
 And the LORD said unto Cain, Where is Abel thy brother? And he said, I 
know not: Am I my brother's keeper?
 And he said, What hast thou done? the voice of thy brother's blood 
crieth unto me from the ground. 
 And now art thou cursed from the earth, which hath opened her mouth to 
receive thy brother's blood from thy hand;
 When thou tillest the ground, it shall not henceforth yield unto thee 
her strength; a fugitive and a vagabond shalt thou be in the earth. 
 And Cain said unto the LORD, My punishment is greater than I can bear. 
 Behold, thou hast driven me out this day from the face of the earth; 
and from thy face shall I be hid; and I shall be a fugitive and a vagabond 
in the earth; and it shall come to pass, that every one that findeth me 
shall slay me. 
 And the LORD said unto him, Therefore whosoever slayeth Cain, 
vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. And the LORD set a mark upon 
Cain, lest any finding him should kill him. 
 And Cain went out from the presence of the LORD, and dwelt in the land 
of Nod, on the east of Eden. 
 And Cain knew his wife; and she conceived, and bare Enoch: and he 
builded a city, and called the name of the city, after the name of his 
son, Enoch.