1. 
One night a man from the parish of Viöl was riding from Bredstedt to Norstedt. As he approached the village an underground person stood next to the road in front of a hill where he had lived since ancient times. He offered him a drink from a glistening golden cup. The man accepted the cup without dismounting from his horse. He was about to place it to his lips when he was struck with fear, and instead of drinking he emptied the cup's contents behind himself, gave his horse the spurs, and rode away with his booty. 
  
He immediately heard the little man calling his comrades or subjects. They all suddenly appeared, pelting him with stones. 
 
Fortunately the village was not far away; otherwise he would have been lost. With his horse he jumped the gate that blocked the entrance, and was safe. The stones thrown at him now bounced off the village gate. Coming to a halt and examining his horse, he saw that all the hair had been burned off where he had spilled the drink. 
 
To give thanks for his fortunate rescue he presented the cup to the church at Viöl, where it was used for a long time. A few years ago when the parsonage was struck by lightening, it was destroyed in the ensuing fire. 
 
From Mr. Petersen, a teacher in Norstedt.
 
 
 2. 
Late one evening a peasant from Ragebøl was riding home from Satrup. As he passed by a hill called  Boehøi  he saw that it had been lifted up and was sitting on four golden pillars. Inside they were cheerfully drinking and making merry. Then the peasant shouted out that they should give him something to drink as well. 
 
One of them came out immediately and offered him a golden cup. However, the peasant did not dare to drink from it, and he poured out its entire contents behind himself. This singed off the horse's hair and skin. Then with the cup in his hand he rode off quickly toward the village. 
  
The one who had brought the cup to him shouted in the direction of the hill, "Come quickly, Onehorn; Goldhorn is gone!"
  
The two of them ran after the rider, and as he rode in at the stall door, they grabbed the horse by a leg and nearly tore it off. 
 
After that the man did not dare to keep the cup at home, but instead presented it to the church.
 
From Sundewith. 
 
 
 3. 
The church at Hjordkær received its altar cup in the same manner. Because it was used not only in the church, but also to deliver communion to the sick, it was proven that the cup possessed a miraculous healing power. Most sick people who drank from it recovered. It was also lent out at weddings for the use of the newlyweds, for it was believed that it promoted marital happiness and blessing.  
  
After this had been the custom for many years, one day a poor man dressed in rags appeared at a wedding in Alsleben and asked for a drink from the cup, because -- as he had been told -- it could cure him of an otherwise incurable illness. The compassionate wedding couple granted his wish, but no sooner did the beggar have the cup in his hand than he disappeared  with it, before the eyes of everyone present.   
From Pastor Hansen in Hjordkær.