A rich widower had an only daughter who was developing into a beautiful 
and charming woman. Her father's heart became inflamed with impure love, 
but she withstood his advances. He threatened to force himself on her, and 
she responded with cunning. She promised to yield to his will if he would 
give her a dress made of silver. When she received such a dress, she then 
demanded one made from gold, and the third time, one made from jewels. 
After receiving that one as well, she said, "Now all I need is a crow-skin 
coat," and then she made one last wish: a magic wand. These too she 
received.   
Now in another land there lived a prince who had heard of the girl's 
beauty. Taking the magic wand in her hand and the dresses over her 
shoulder, she wished herself to the vicinity of the prince's castle. She 
immediately found herself in the castle garden. Then she wished for 
herself a chest in an oak tree in the garden, put her dresses in it, put 
on the crow-skin coat and went to the castle kitchen where she presented 
herself as a poor boy looking for work.   
"I can use you," said the cook. "You can be the cinder blower."   
A few days later the prince came to the kitchen with some freshly killed 
game. She saw him and liked him beyond measure.   
Soon afterward there was a wedding in a nearby castle, and the prince went 
to it. Many people went there to look on at the dance. Cinder Blower asked 
the cook for permission to observe. She ran to the oak tree, put on the 
silver dress, and wished herself a carriage in which she rode to the 
castle. The prince saw her and danced with her, but after a few dances she 
disappeared. Seating herself in her carriage she said,  
 
Darkness behind me, Before me light,  
So none can follow me into the night.  
 
The next morning the prince was in a bad mood, for he had been awake all 
night thinking about his beautiful dance partner. Cinder Blower was asked 
to polish his boots, and this she did, but she failed to polish one small 
spot on one of the toes. The prince noticed this and angrily came into the 
kitchen and threw the boot at her head.   
The next evening there was another dance, and Cinder Blower again asked 
for permission to go. This time she put on the golden dress, then rode 
there in the carriage. The prince had been looking for her and was very 
happy when she arrived. While dancing with her he asked her where she 
lived.   
"In Boot-Throw" was her answer. She remained there one hour, and then 
disappeared. In vain the prince asked where Boot-Throw was. No one could 
tell him.   
Again that night the prince could not close his eyes, and the next day he 
was in an even worse mood than before.   
Cinder Blower was asked to brush his coat, but he did not like the way she 
did it, and finally he threw the brush at her head.   
The third evening Cinder Blower again asked for permission to look on at 
the dance, then put on her dress of precious stones. While dancing with 
her the prince asked her where she lived.   
"In Brush-Throw," was her answer.   
"Whoever you are," he said, "take this ring from me."   
She let him put the ring onto her finger. Then she tried to sneak away, 
but the prince carefully watched her and followed close behind her. She 
climbed out of her carriage near the oak tree. However, she did not have 
time to take off her dress, but quickly put on the crow-skin coat over it. 
  
The next morning when the cook was preparing the soup, Cinder Blower 
dropped the ring into it. The prince found it and asked the cook who had 
been in the kitchen.   
"Only Cinder Blower and I," he answered.  
The prince summoned Cinder Blower and said, "My head itches. Look and see 
if any vermin are there."   
Cinder Blower obeyed, but when she stood before him, he saw the diamond 
dress glistening forth from beneath the worn-out crow-skin coat. Then he 
recognized her. "Now you are mine," he said, and he made her his wife and 
they lived happily together until they died.