Once upon a time there was a rich man who lived happily for a long time
with his wife. Together they had a single daughter. Then the woman became
ill, and when she was lying on her deathbed, she called her daughter to
her side, and said, "Dear child, I must leave you now, but I will look
down on you from heaven. Plant a little tree on my grave, and when you
want something, just shake the tree, and you shall get what you want. I
will help you in time of need. Just remain pious and good." Then she
closed her eyes and died. The child cried, and planted a little tree on
her mother's grave. She did not need to carry any water to it, because her
tears provided all the water that it needed.
 The snow fell over the mother's grave like a white cloth; then after
the sun had retired from it a second time, and the little tree had become
green a second time, the man took another wife.
 The stepmother already had two daughters by her first husband. They
were beautiful to look at, but in their hearts they were proud, arrogant,
and evil. After the wedding was over, the three moved into the man's
house, and times grew very bad for his poor child.
 "What is that useless creature doing in the best room?" asked the
stepmother. "Away to the kitchen with her! And if she wants to eat, then
she must earn it. She can be our maid."
 Her stepsisters took her dresses away from her and made her wear an old
gray skirt. "That is good enough for you!" they said, making fun of her
and leading her into the kitchen. Then the poor child had to do the most
difficult work. She had to get up before sunrise, carry water, make the
fire, cook, and wash. To add to her misery, her stepsisters ridiculed her
and then scattered peas and lentils into the ashes, and she had to spend
the whole day sorting them out again. At night when she was tired, there
was no bed for her to sleep in, but she had to lie down next to the hearth
in the ashes. Because she was always dirty with ashes and dust, they gave
her the name  Cinderella .
 The time came when the king announced a ball. It was to last, in all
splendor, for three days, and there his son, the prince, would choose a
wife for himself. The two proud sisters were invited. "Cinderella," they
cried, "Come here. Comb our hair. Brush our shoes, and tighten our laces.
We are going to the prince's ball."
 Cinderella did the best that she could, but they rewarded her only with
curses. When they were ready, they said with scorn, "Cinderella, wouldn't
you like to go to the ball?"
 "Oh, yes. But how can I go? I don't have a dress."
 "No," said the oldest one, "and we would be ashamed if you were to be
seen there, and people learned that you are our sister. You belong in the
kitchen. Here is a basin of lentils. Sort the good ones from the bad ones,
and if there is a single bad one in the lot when we return, you can expect
the worst."
 With that, they left. Cinderella stood and watched until she could no
longer see them. Then she sadly went into the kitchen and spread the
lentils out over the hearth. There was a very, very large pile of them.
"Oh," she said with a sigh. "I'll have to sit here sorting lentils until
midnight, and I can't close my eyes, no matter how much they hurt. If only
my mother knew about this!"
 She kneeled down in the ashes next to the hearth and was about to begin
her work when two white pigeons flew in through the window. They lit on
the hearth next to the lentils. Nodding their heads, they said,
"Cinderella, do you want us to help you sort the lentils?"
 "Yes," she answered:
 The bad ones go into your crop, 
The good ones go into the pot. 
 And peck, peck, peck, peck, they started at once, eating up the bad
ones and leaving the good ones lying. In only a quarter of an hour there
was not a single bad lentil among the good ones, and she brushed them all
into the pot.
 Then the pigeons said to her, "Cinderella, if you would like to see
your sisters dancing with the prince, just climb up to the pigeon roost."
She followed them and climbed to the top rung of the ladder to the pigeon
roost. There she could see into the hall, and she saw her sisters dancing
with the prince. Everything glistened by the glow of a thousand lights.
After she had seen enough, she climbed back down. With a heavy heart she
lay down in the ashes and fell asleep.
 The next morning the two sisters came to the kitchen. They were angry
when they saw that she had sorted the lentils, for they wanted to scold
her. Because they could not, they began telling her about the ball. They
said, "Cinderella, it was so grand at the ball. The prince, who is the
best looking man in the whole world, escorted us, and he is going to
choose one of us to be his wife."
 "Yes," said Cinderella, "I saw the glistening lights. It must have been
magnificent."
 "Now just how did you do that?" asked the oldest one.
 "By standing up there on the pigeon roost."
 When she heard this, her envy drove her to have the pigeon roost torn
down immediately.
 Cinderella had to comb their hair and get them ready again. The
youngest sister, who had a little sympathy in her heart, said,
"Cinderella, when it gets dark you can go and look through the windows
from the outside."
 "No!" said the oldest one. "That would only make her lazy. Here is a
sackful of seeds. Sort the good ones from the bad ones, and do it well. If
tomorrow there are any bad ones in the lot, then I will dump the whole
sackful into the ashes, and you will have to go without eating until you
have picked them all out again."
 Cinderella sadly sat down on the hearth and spread out the seeds. The
pigeons flew in again, and said, "Cinderella, do you want us to help you
sort the seeds?"
 "Yes," she answered:
 The bad ones go into your crop, 
The good ones go into the pot. 
 Peck, peck, peck, peck, it went as fast as if twelve hands were at
work. When they were finished, the pigeons said, "Cinderella, would you
like to go dancing at the ball?"
 "Oh, my goodness," she said, "how could I go in these dirty clothes?"
 "Just go to the little tree on your mother's grave, shake it, and wish
yourself some beautiful clothes. But come back before midnight."
 So Cinderella went and shook the little tree, and said:
 Shake yourself, shake yourself, little tree. 
Throw some nice clothing down to me! 
 She had scarcely spoken these words when a splendid silver dress fell
down before her. With it were pearls, silk stockings with silver
decorations, silver slippers, and everything else that she needed.
Cinderella carried it all home. After she had washed herself and put on
the beautiful clothing, she was as beautiful as a rose washed in dew. She
went to the front door, and there was a carriage with six black horses all
decorated with feathers, and servants dressed in blue and silver. They
helped her into the carriage, and away they galloped to the king's castle.
 The prince saw the carriage stop before the gate, and thought that a
foreign princess was arriving. He himself walked down the steps, helped
Cinderella out, and escorted her into the hall. Many thousand lights shone
upon her, and she was so beautiful that everyone there was amazed. The
sisters stood there, angry that someone was more beautiful than they were,
but they had no idea that it was Cinderella, who they thought was lying at
home in the ashes. The prince danced with Cinderella and paid her every
royal honor. He thought to himself, "I am supposed to choose myself a
bride. I will have no one but her."
 However long she had suffered in ashes and sorrow, Cinderella was now
living in splendor and joy. As midnight approached, before the clock
struck twelve, she stood up, bowed, and said that she had to go, in spite
of the prince's requests for her to stay. The prince escorted her out. Her
carriage stood there waiting for her. And she rode away just as splendidly
as she had come.
 Back at home, Cinderella returned to the tree on her mother's
grave, and said: 
 Shake yourself, shake yourself, little tree! 
Take the clothing back from me! 
 The tree took back the clothes. Cinderella put on her old
ash-dress again, went home, dirtied her face, and lay down in the ashes to
sleep.
 The next morning the two sisters came in looking out of sorts, and
without saying a word. Cinderella said, "Did you have a good time
yesterday evening?"
 "No. A princess was there who danced with the prince almost the whole
time, but no one knew who she was nor where she came from."
 "Was she the one in the splendid carriage drawn by six black horses?"
asked Cinderella.
 "How did you know that?"
 "I was standing in the front door when she rode by the house."
 "In the future do not leave your work," said the oldest one, giving
Cinderella an evil look. "What were you doing, standing in the front
door?"
 Cinderella had to get her sisters ready a third time. Her reward was a
basin filled with peas, which she was supposed to sort. "And do not dare
to leave your work," shouted the oldest one, as she was leaving.
 Cinderella thought, "If only my pigeons will come again," and her heart
beat a little faster. The pigeons did come, just as they had the evening
before, and said, "Cinderella, would you like us to help you sort the
peas."
 "Yes," she said:
 The bad ones go into your crop, 
The good ones go into the pot. 
 Once again the pigeons picked out the bad ones, and soon they were
finished. Then they said, "Cinderella, shake the little tree, and it will
throw down even more beautiful clothes. Go to the ball, but be careful to
come back before midnight." Cinderella went and said:
 Shake yourself, shake yourself, little tree. 
Throw some nice clothing down to me! 
 Then a dress fell down that was even more magnificent and more splendid
than the other one, made entirely of gold and precious stones. With it
were stockings decorated with gold, and slippers made of gold. Cinderella
put them on, and she glistened like the sun at midday. A carriage with six
white horses pulled up at the door. The horses had tall white plumes on
their heads, and the servants were dressed in red and gold.
 When Cinderella arrived, the prince was waiting for her at the
stairway. He escorted her into the hall. If everyone had been astounded at
her beauty yesterday, today they were even more astounded. The sisters
stood in the corner, pale with envy. If they had known that this was
Cinderella, who they thought was at home lying in the ashes, they would
have died of jealousy.
 The prince wanted to know who the foreign princess was, where she was
from, and where she was going. He placed his people in the street to keep
watch. To prevent her from running away so fast, he had the stairway
covered with pitch. Cinderella danced with the prince again and again.
Filled with joy, she did not think about midnight. Suddenly, in the middle
of a dance, she heard the clock strike. She suddenly remembered what the
pigeons had warned her. Frightened, she rushed to the door and ran down
the stairs. Because they were covered with pitch, one of her golden
slippers stuck fast, and in her fear she did not think to pick it up. She
reached the last step just as the clock struck twelve. The carriage and
the horses disappeared, and Cinderella was left standing there in the dark
street dressed in her ash-clothes.
 The prince had rushed after her. He found the golden slipper on the
stairway, pulled it loose, and picked it up. But by the time he arrived
below, she had disappeared. The people whom he had ordered to keep watch
came and said that they had seen nothing.
 Cinderella was glad that it had not been worse. She returned home, lit
her simple oil lamp, hung it in the chimney, and lay down in the ashes.
Before long the two sisters returned, and called out, "Cinderella, get up
and light the way for us."
 Cinderella yawned and acted as though she had been asleep. While
lighting their way, she heard one of them say, "God knows who the cursed
princess is. I wish that she were lying beneath the earth! The prince
danced only with her, and after she left, he did not want to stay any
longer, and the whole party came to an end."
 "It was as though they suddenly blew out all the lights," said the
other one. Cinderella knew exactly who the foreign princess was, but she
did not say a word.
 Now the prince decided that since nothing else had succeeded, he would
let the slipper help him find his bride. He had it proclaimed that he
would marry the person whose foot fit the golden slipper. But it was too
small for everyone. Indeed, some could not have gotten their foot inside,
if it had been twice as large. Finally it came time for the two sisters to
try on the slipper. They were happy, for they had small, beautiful feet,
and each one believed that she could not fail. "If only the prince would
come here sooner!" they thought.
 "Listen," said the mother secretly. "Take this knife, and if the
slipper is too tight, just cut off part of your foot. It will hurt a
little, but what harm is that? The pain will soon pass, and then one of
you will be queen." Then the oldest one went to her bedroom and tried on
the slipper. The front of her foot went in, but her heel was too large, so
she took the knife and cut part of it off, so she could force her foot
into the slipper. Then she went out to the prince, and when he saw that
she was wearing the slipper, he said that she was to be his bride. He
escorted her to his carriage and was going to drive away with her. When he
arrived at the gate, the two pigeons were perched above, and they called
out:
 Rook di goo, rook di goo! 
There's blood in the shoe. 
The shoe is too tight, 
This bride is not right! 
 The prince bent over and looked at the slipper. Blood was streaming
from it. He saw that he had been deceived, and he took the false bride
back.
 The mother then said to her second daughter, "Take the slipper, and if
it is too short for you, then cut off your toes." So she took the slipper
into her bedroom, and because her foot was too long, she bit her teeth
together, and cut off a large part of her toes, then quickly pulled on the
slipper. When she stepped out wearing it, the prince thought that she was
the right one, and wanted to ride away with her. But when they came to the
gate, the pigeons again called out:
 Rook di goo, rook di goo! 
There's blood in the shoe. 
The shoe is too tight, 
This bride is not right! 
 The prince looked down and saw that her white stockings were stained
red, and that blood and had come up high on them. The prince took her back
to her mother and said, "She is not the right bride either. Is there not
another daughter here in this house?"
 "No," said the mother. "There is only a dirty cinder girl here. She is
sitting down there in the ashes. The slipper would never fit her." She did
not want to call her, but the prince insisted. So they called Cinderella,
and when she heard that the prince was there, she quickly washed her hands
and face. She stepped into the best room and bowed. The prince handed her
the golden slipper, and said, "Try it on. If it fits you, you shall be my
wife." She pulled the heavy shoe from her left foot, then put her foot
into the slipper, pushing ever so slightly. It fit as if it had been
poured over her foot. As she straightened herself up, she looked into the
prince's face, and he recognized her as the beautiful princess. He cried
out, "This is the right bride." The stepmother and the two proud sisters
turned pale with horror. The prince escorted Cinderella away. He helped
her into his carriage, and as they rode through the gate, the pigeons
called out:
 Rook di goo, rook di goo! 
No blood's in the shoe. 
The shoe's not too tight, 
This bride is right!