Once upon a time there was a man who had three daughters. He was once
ordered to go away to work, and said the them, "Since I am about making a
journey, what do you want me to bring you when I return?"
 One asked for a handsome dress; the other, a fine hat and a beautiful
shawl. He said to the youngest, "And you, Cinderella, what do you want?"
They called her Cinderella because she always sat in the chimney corner.
 "You must buy me a little bird Verdeliò."
 "The simpleton! She does not know what to do with the bird! Instead of
ordering a handsome dress, a fine shawl, she takes a bird. Who knows what
she will do with it!"
 "Silence!" she says. "It pleases me."
 The father went, and on his return brought the dress, hat, and shawl
for the two sisters, and the little bird for Cinderella.
 The father was employed at the court, and one day the king said to him,
"I am going to give three balls; if you want to bring your daughters, do
so; they will amuse themselves a little."
 "As you wish," he replies, "thanks!" and accepts.
 He went home and said, "What do you think, girls? His majesty wishes
you to attend his ball."
 "There, you see, Cinderella, if you had only asked for a handsome
dress! This evening we are going to the ball."
 She replied, "It matters nothing to me! You go; I am not coming."
 In the evening, when the time came, they adorned themselves, saying to
Cinderella, "Come along, there will be room for you, too."
 "I don't want to go; you go; I don't want to."
 "But," said their father, "let us go, let us go! Dress and come along;
let her stay."
 When they had gone, she went to the bird and said, "O Bird
Verdeliò, make me more beautiful than I am!"
 She became clothed in a sea green dress, with so many diamonds that it
blinded you to behold her. The bird made ready two purses of money, and
said to her, "Take these two purses, enter your carriage, and away!"
 She set out for the ball, and left the bird Verdeliò at home.
She entered the ballroom. Scarcely had the gentlemen seen this beautiful
lady (she dazzled them on all sides), when the king, just think of it,
began to dance with her the whole evening. After he had danced with her
all the evening, his majesty stopped, and she stood by her sisters. While
she was at her sisters' side, she drew out her handkerchief, and a
bracelet fell out.
 "Oh, Signora," said the eldest sister, "you have dropped this."
 "Keep it for yourself," she said.
 "Oh, if Cinderella were only here, who knows what might not have
happened to her?"
 The king had given orders that when this lady went away they should
find out where she lived. After she had remained a little she left the
ball. You can imagine whether the servants were on the lookout! She
entered her carriage and away! She perceives that she is followed, takes
the money and begins to throw it out of the window of the carriage. The
greedy servants, I tell you, seeing all that money, thought no more of
her, but stopped to pick up the money. She returned home and went
upstairs.
 "O Bird Verdeliò, make me homelier than I am!" You ought to see
how ugly, how horrid, she became, all ashes.
 When the sisters returned, they cried, "Cin-der-ella!"
 "Oh, leave her alone," said her father. "She is asleep now, leave her
along!"
 But they went up and showed her the large and beautiful bracelet. "Do
you see, you simpleton? You might have had it."
 "It matters nothing to me."
 Their father said, "Let us go to supper, you little geese."
 Let us return to the king, who was awaiting her servants, who had not
the courage to appear, but kept away. He calls them. "How did the matter
go?"
 The fall at his feet. "Thus and thus! She threw out so much money!"
 "Wretches, you are nothing else." he said. "Were you afraid of not
being rewarded? Well! tomorrow evening, attention, under pain of death."
 The next evening the usual ball. The sisters say, "Will you come this
evening, Cinderella?"
 "Oh," she says, "don't bother me! I don't want to go."
 Their father cries out to them, "How troublesome you are! Let her
alone!"
 So they began to adorn themselves more handsomely than the former
evening, and departed. "Good-bye, Cinderella!"
 When they had gone, Cinderella went to the bird and said, "Little Bird
Verdeliò, make me more beautiful than I am!" Then she became
clothed in sea green, embroidered with all the fish of the sea, mingled
with diamonds more than you could believe.
 The bird said, "Take these two bags of sand, and when you are followed,
throw it out, and so they will be blinded."
 She entered her carriage and set out for the ball. As soon as his
majesty saw her he began to dance with her and danced as long as he could.
After he had danced as long as he could (she did not grow weary, but he
did), she placed herself near her sisters, drew out her handkerchief, and
there fell out a beautiful necklace all made of coal.
 The second sister said, "Signora, you have dropped this."
 She replied, "Keep it for yourself."
 "If Cinderella were here, who knows what might not happen to her!
Tomorrow she must come!"
 After a while she leaves the ball. The servants (just think, under pain
of death!) were all on the alert, and followed her. She began to throw out
all the sand, and they were blinded. She went home, dismounted, and went
upstairs.
 "Little Bird Verdeliò, make me homelier than I am!" She became
frightfully homely.
 When her sisters returned they began from below, "Cin-der-ella! if you
only knew what that lady gave us!"
 "It matters nothing to me!"
 "Yes, yes! you would have had it!"
 The father says, "Let us go to supper and let her alone; you are really
silly!"
 Let us return to his majesty, who was waiting for his servants to learn
where she lived. Instead of that they were all brought back blinded, and
had to be accompanied. "Rogue!" he exclaimed, "either this lady is some
fairy or she must have some fairy who protects her."
 The next day the sisters began, "Cinderella, you must go this evening!
Listen; it is the last evening; you must come."
 The father: "Oh let her alone! You are always teasing her!"
 Then they went away and began to prepare for the ball. When they were
all prepared, they went to the ball with their father.
 When they had departed, Cinderella went to the bird: "Little Bird
Verdeliò, make me more beautiful than I am!" Then she was dressed
in all the colors of the heavens; all the comets, the stars, and moon on
her dress, and the sun on her brow. She enters the ballroom. Who could
look at her! For the sun alone they lower their eyes, and are all blinded.
His majesty began to dance, but he could not look at her, because she
dazzled him. He had already given orders to his servants to be on the
lookout, under pain of death, not to go on foot, but to mount their horses
that evening.
 After she had danced longer than on the previous evenings she placed
herself by her father's side, drew out her handkerchief, and there fell
out a snuffbox of gold, full of money.
 "Signora, you have dropped this snuffbox."
 "Keep it for yourself!"
 Imagine that man. He opens it and sees it full of money. What a joy!
 After she had remained a time she went home as usual. The servants
followed her on horseback, quickly, at a distance from the carriage; but
on horseback that was not much trouble. She perceived that she had not
prepared anything to throw that evening.
 "Oh!" she cried. "What shall I do?" She left the carriage quickly, and
in her haste lost one of her slippers. The servants picked it up, took the
number of the house, and went away.
 Cinderella went upstairs and said, "Little Bird Verdeliò, make
me more homely than I am!"
 The bird does not answer. After she had repeated it three or four
times, it answered, "Rogue! I ought not to make you more homely, but ..."
and she became homely and the bird continued, "What are you going to do
now? You are discovered."
 She began to weep in earnest. When her sisters returned they cried,
"Cin-der-ella!" You can imagine that she did not answer them this evening.
"See what a beautiful snuffbox. If you had gone you might have had it."
 "I do not care! Go away!"
 Then their father called them to supper.
 Let us now turn to the servants who went back with the slipper and the
number of the house.
 "Tomorrow," said his majesty, "as soon as it is day, go to that house,
take a carriage, and bring that lady to the palace."
 The servants took the slipper and went away. The next morning they
knocked at the door. Cinderella's father looked out and exclaimed, "Oh
heavens! It is his majesty's carriage. What does it mean?" They open the
door and the servants ascend. "What do you want of me?" asked the father.
 "How many daughters have you?"
 "Two."
 "Well, show them to us."
 The father made them come in there.
 "Sit down," they said to one of them. They tried the slipper on her; it
was ten times too large for her. The other one sat down; it was too small
for her. "But tell me, good man, have you no other daughters? Take care to
tell the truth! because majesty wishes it, under pain of death!"
 "Gentlemen, there is another one, but I do not mention it. She is all
in the ashes, the coals. If you should see her! I do not call her my
daughter from shame."
 "We have not come for beauty, or for finery; we want to see the girl!"
 Her sisters began to call her, "Cin-der-ella!" but she did not answer.
 After a time she said, "What is the matter?"
 "You must come down! There are some gentlemen who wish to see you."
 "I don't want to come."
 "But you must come, you see!"
 "Very well; tell them I will come in a moment." She went to the little
bird: "Ah little Bird Verdeliò, make me more beautiful than I am!"
Then she was dressed as she had been the last evening, with the sun, and
moon, and stars, and in addition, great chains all of gold everywhere
about her.
 The bird said, "Take me away with you! Put me in your bosom!" She puts
the bird in her bosom and begins to descend the stairs.
 "Do you hear her?" said the father. "Do you hear her? She is dragging
with her the chains from the chimney corner. You can imagine how frightful
she will look!"
 When she reached the last step, and they saw her, "Ah!" they exclaimed,
and recognized the lady of the ball. You can imagine how her father and
sisters were vexed. They made her sit down, and tried on the slipper, and
it fitted her. Then they made her enter the carriage, and took her to his
majesty, who recognized the lady of the other evenings. And you can
imagine that, all in love as her was, he said to her, "Will you really be
my wife?"
 You may believe she consents. She sends for her father and sisters, and
makes them all come to the palace. They celebrate the marriage. Imagine
what fine festivals were given at this wedding! The servants who had
discovered where Cinderella lived were promoted to the highest positions
in the palace as a reward.