There was a cook whose name was Gretel. She wore shoes with red heels,
and whenever she went out she would turn this way and that way, and was
very cheerful, and thought, "You are a beautiful girl!" Then after
returning home, because she was so happy, she drank a swallow of wine, and
the wine gave her an appetite, so she tasted the best of what she had
cooked, until she was quite full, and then said, "The cook has to know how
the food tastes." 
 One day her master said to her, "Gretel, this evening a guest is
coming. Prepare two chickens for me, the best way that you can." 
 "Yes indeed, my lord," answered Gretel. She killed the chickens,
scalded them, plucked them, stuck them on the spit, and then, as evening
approached, put them over the fire to roast. The chickens began to brown,
and were nearly done, but the guest had not yet arrived. Gretel called to
her master, "If the guest doesn't come, I'll have to take the chickens
from the fire. And it will be a crying shame if they're not eaten soon,
because they're at their juicy best right now." 
 The master answered, "You're right. I'll run and fetch the guest
myself." 
 As soon as the master had turned his back, Gretel set the spit and the
chickens aside and thought, "Standing here by the fire has made me sweaty
and thirsty. Who knows when they will be back. I'll just run down into the
cellar and take a swallow. So she ran down, lifted a jug to her lips, "God
bless you, Gretel!" and took a healthy drink. "Wine belongs together," she
said to herself. It's not good to keep it apart." Then she went back
upstairs and placed the chickens over the fire again, basted them with
butter, and cheerfully turned the spit. Because the roasting chicken
smelled so good, she thought, "It could be lacking something. I'd better
taste it!" She tested them with her fingers, and said, "My, these chickens
are good! It's a sin and a shame that they won't be eaten at once!" 
 She ran to the window, to see if her master and his guest were
arriving, but she saw no one. Returning to the chickens, she said, "That
one wing is burning. I'd better just eat it." So she cut it off and ate
it, and it tasted so good, and when she had finished it, she thought, "I'd
better eat the other one too, or the master will see that something is
missing." When both wings had been eaten, she once again looked for her
master, but could not see him. Then it occurred to her, "who knows,
perhaps they've gone somewhere else and aren't coming here at all." Then
she said, "Well, Gretel, be of good cheer! The one has already been cut
into. Have another drink and eat the rest of it. When it's gone, you can
rest! Why should this gift of God go to waste?" 
 So she ran to the cellar once again, downed a noble drink, and finished
off the first chicken with pleasure. When it was gone, and still the
master had not yet returned, she looked at the other chicken and said,
"Where the one is, the other should follow. The two belong together. What
is right for the one, can't be wrong for the other. I believe that if I
have another drink, it will do me no harm." So she took another drink, and
sent the second chicken running after the first one. 
 Just as she was making the most of it, her master returned, calling
out, "Gretel, hurry up, the guest is right behind me." 
 "Yes, master, I'm getting it ready," answered Gretel. The master saw
that the table was set, and he picked up the large knife that he wanted to
carve the chickens with, and stood in the hallway sharpening it. 
 The guest arrived and knocked politely on the door. Gretel ran to see
who it was, and when she saw that it was the guest, she held a finger
before her mouth, and said, "Be quiet! Hurry and get away from here. If my
master catches you, you'll be sorry. Yes, he invited you for an evening
meal, but all he really wants is to cut off both of your ears. Listen,
he's sharpening his knife for it right now." 
 The guest heard the whetting and ran down the steps as fast as he
could. Then Gretel, who was not a bit lazy, ran to her master, crying,
"Just what kind of a guest did you invite?" 
 "What do you mean, Gretel?" 
 "Why," she said, "he took both of the chickens off the platter, just as
I was about to carry them out, and then ran away with them." 
 "Now that's a fine tune!" said the master, feeling sorry about the loss
of the good chickens. "At the least, he could have left one of them, so I
would have something to eat." He called out to him to stop, but the guest
pretended not to hear. Therefore he ran after him, the knife still in his
hand, shouting, "Just one! Just one!" But the guest thought that he wanted
him to give up just one of his ears, so he ran as though there were a fire
burning beneath him, in order to get home with both ears.