Ages ago there lived in Tannenberg Castle on the mountain road a knight
whose name was Conrad. He had a wife named Ann-Els who was as beautiful as
she was pious. One time she became seriously ill, and he vowed that if she
should recover he would make a pilgrimage to the Holy Grave and there
battle against the infidels. And lo, Ann-Els recovered soon thereafter,
and when her health had fully returned, the knight made himself ready to
depart on a pilgrimage. With many tears he took leave of his wife and
journeyed to the sea, where together with companions he had met underway
he boarded a ship. 
 At sea the ship was attacked by pirates. He and his companions were
taken prisoner and sold as slaves to an eminent Turk. 
 Year upon year passed, and his wife received no news from him. Because
she was wealthy, she received many marriage proposals from neighboring
knights, but she was interested in none of them and rejected them all,
which caused a great deal of hate and animosity toward her. 
 Then one day she heard from another pilgrim who was returning home from
the promised land that her husband was languishing as a prisoner among the
Turks, and she resolved to rescue him, cost it what it may. Dressing
herself in men's clothes, she took her harp, which she could play very
well, and journeyed across the sea to Turkey. Arriving there safely, she
sought and inquired after her husband until finally she discovered where
he was. Then one day she approached the Turk who was his master and played
such beautiful melodies on her harp, and sang with such charm, that the
Turk said she should name her own reward, that he would give her anything
she requested. 
 Then she said, "I ask only for a slave to serve me," and from among the
slaves she selected one -- her dear husband. However, she did not identify
herself to him, but kept him away from her. After the sea voyage was
successfully completed and they found themselves again on Christian soil,
she left a sum of money for him, then secretly slipped away and hurried
home as fast as possible. 
 Not long afterward Conrad too arrived at Tannenberg Castle and was
joyfully and festively received by his wife. All the knights from the
surrounding area came to the castle to wish him well. While they were
eating Knight Conrad told them of his adventures, how he had been
captured, mistreated, and so miraculously rescued. 
 Then several of the knights whose marriage proposals Ann-Els had
rejected whispered into his ear that in the meantime his wife had been
traveling about the land dressed in men's clothes and leading an indecent
life. 
 Upon hearing this Conrad jumped up angrily, drew his sword, and
attempted to kill Ann-Els, but she fled into her room and barred the door
so that he could not harm her. Not long afterward she returned to the hall
carrying her harp and wearing the clothes in which she had freed Conrad,
and she played a melody. Then Knight Conrad jumped up and fell into the
singer's arms. She threw off the clothes and stood there as the faithful
Ann-Els. 
 It is not necessary to say how happy Conrad was, nor that the gossipers
disappeared as soon as they possibly could, not letting themselves be seen
again, and that the festival ended even more joyfully than it had
begun.