Notes of the Folk-Lore of the Northern Counties
of England and the Borders    
In the southern counties of Scotland children are considered before
baptism at the mercy of the fairies, who may carry them off at pleasure or
inflict injury upon them.  Hence, of course, it is unlucky to take
unbaptized children on a journey -- a belief which prevails throughout
Northumberland, and indeed in many other parts of the country 
Brand mentions this danger ( Popular Antiquities,   vol. 2, p. 73),
and says the Danish women guard their children during this period against
evil spirits by placing in the cradle, or over the door, garlic slat,
bread, and steel in the form of some sharp instrument.  "Something like
this," he adds, "obtained in England;" and accordingly I am told that in
the West Riding of Yorkshire "a child was kept safe while sleeping by
hanging a carving knife from the head of the cradle with the point
suspended near the infant's face." 
In Germany, the proper things to lay in the cradle are "orant" (which is
translated into either horehound or snapdragon), blue marjoram, black
cumin, a right shirt sleeve, and a left stocking.  The "Nickert" cannot
then harm the child. 
The modern Greeks dread witchcraft at this period of their children's
lives, and are careful not to leave them alone during their first eight
days, within which period the Greek Church refuses to baptize them.
(Wright's  Literature of the Middle Ages , vol. 1, p. 291) 
In Scotland the little one's safeguard is held to lie in the juxtaposition
of some article of dress belonging to its father.  This was experienced by
the wife a shepherd near Selkirk.  Soon after the birth of her first
child, a fine boy, she was lying in bed with her baby by her side, when
suddenly she  became aware of a confused noise of talking and merry
laughter in the "spence," or room.  This, in fact, proceeded from the
fairies, who were forming a child of wax as a substitute for the baby,
which they were planning to steal away.  The poor mother suspected as
much, so in great alarm she seized her husband's waistcoat, which chanced
to be lying at the foot of the bed, and flung it over herself and the
child.  The fairies set up a loud scream, calling out "Auld Luckie has
cheated us o' our bairnie!" 
Soon afterwards the woman heard something fall down the lum (or chimney),
and looking out she saw a waxen image of her baby, stuck full of pins,
lying on the hearth. 
When her husband came home he made up a large fire and threw the fairy
lump upon it; but, instead of burning, the thing flew up the chimney, and
the house instantly resounded with shouts of joy and peals of laughter. 
Family affection must have been very strong when any trifle closely
connected with the father was deemed a safeguard for the child, a
safeguard needed till its baptism shielded it from every evil or malicious
sprite.