At Asakusa, in Yedo, there lives a man called Danzayémon, the chief 
of the Etas.  This man traces his pedigree back to Minamoto no Yoritomo, 
who founded the Shogunate in the year 1192 A.D.  The whole of the Etas in 
Japan are under his jurisdiction; his subordinates are called 
Koyagashira, or "chiefs of the huts"; and they constitute the government 
of the Etas.  In the "Legacy of Iyéyasu," the 36th Law provides as 
follows: 
 
All wandering mendicants, such as male sorcerers, female diviners, 
hermits, blind people, beggars, and tanners (Etas), have had from of old 
their respective rulers.  Be not disinclined, however, to punish any such 
who give rise to disputes, or who overstep the boundaries of their own 
classes and are disobedient to existing laws. 
 
The occupation of the Etas is to kill and flay horses, oxen, and other 
beasts, to stretch drums and make shoes; and if they are very poor, they 
wander from house to house, working as cobblers, mending old shoes and 
leather, and so earn a scanty livelihood.  Besides this, their daughters 
and young married women gain a trifle as wandering minstrels, called 
Torioi, playing on the shamisen, a sort of banjo, and singing ballads.  
They never marry out of their own fraternity, but remain apart, a 
despised and shunned race. 
At execution by crucifixion it is the duty of the Etas to transfix the 
victims with spears; and, besides this, they have to perform all sorts of 
degrading offices about criminals, such as carrying sick prisoners from 
their cells to the hall of justice, and burying the bodies of those that 
have been executed.  Thus their race is polluted and accursed, and they 
are hated accordingly. 
Now this is how the Etas come to be under the jurisdiction of 
Danzayémon: 
When Minamoto no Yoritomo was yet a child, his father, Minamoto no 
Yoshitomo, fought with Taira no Kiyomori, and was killed by treachery: so 
his family was ruined; and Yoshitomo's concubine, whose name was Tokiwa, 
took her children and fled from the house, to save her own and their 
lives.  But Kiyomori, desiring to destroy the family of Yoshitomo root 
and branch, ordered his retainers to divide themselves into bands, and 
seek out the children.  At last they were found; but Tokiwa was so 
exceedingly beautiful that Kiyomori was inflamed with love for her, and 
desired her to become his own concubine.  Then Tokiwa told Kiyomori that 
if he would spare her little ones she would share his couch; but that if 
he killed her children she would destroy herself rather than yield to his 
desire.  When he heard this, Kiyomori, bewildered by the beauty of 
Tokiwa, spared the lives of her children, but banished them from the 
capital. 
So Yoritomo was sent to Hirugakojima, in the province of Idzu; and when 
he grew up and became a man, he married the daughter of a peasant.  After 
a while Yoritomo left the province, and went to the wars, leaving his 
wife pregnant; and in due time she was delivered of a male child, to the 
delight of her parents, who rejoiced that their daughter should bear seed 
to a nobleman; but she soon fell sick and died, and the old people took 
charge of the babe.  And when they also died, the care of the child fell 
to his mother's kinsmen, and he grew up to be a peasant. 
Now Kiyomori, the enemy of Yoritomo, had been gathered to his fathers; 
and Yoritomo had avenged the death of his father by slaying 
Munémori, the son of Kiyomori; and there was peace throughout the 
land.  And Yoritomo became the chief of all the noble houses in Japan, 
and first established the government of the country.  When Yoritomo had 
thus raised himself to power, if the son that his peasant wife had born 
to him had proclaimed himself the sons of the mighty prince, he would 
have been made lord over a province; but he took no thought of this, and 
remained a tiller of the earth, forfeiting a glorious inheritance; and 
his descendants after him lived as peasants in the same village, 
increasing in prosperity and in good repute among their neighbors. 
But the princely line of Yoritomo came to an end in three generations, 
and the house of Hojo was all-powerful in the land. 
Now it happened that the head of the house of Hojo heard that a 
descendant of Yoritomo was living as a peasant in the land, so he 
summoned him and said: "It is a hard thing to see the son of an 
illustrious house live and die a peasant.  I will promote you to the rank 
of Samurai." 
Then the peasant answered: "My lord, if I become a Samurai, and the 
retainer of some noble, I shall not be so happy as when I was my own 
master.  If I may not remain a husbandman, let me be a chief over men, 
however humble they may be." 
But my lord Hojo was angry at this, and thinking to punish the peasant 
for his insolence, said: "Since you wish to become a chief over men, no 
matter how humble, there is no means of gratifying your strange wish but 
by making you chief over the Etas of the whole country.  So now see that 
you rule them well." 
When he heard this, the peasant was afraid; but because he had said that 
he wished to become a chief over men, however humble, he could not choose 
but become chief of the Etas, he and his children after him for ever; and 
Danzayémon, who rules the Etas at the present time, and lives at 
Asakusa, is his lineal descendant.