Death has become one of the great taboos of the twentieth century. At
the most basic level, the level of sustenance, we do our best to hide from
ourselves (and certainly from our children) the harsh facts about fried
chicken, hamburgers, and bacon. A pet, too old and frail to live much
longer, is "put to sleep." At the human level, we are even more isolated
from the one final act that we must all experience. Few people die at
home. Funeral "homes" turn the act of mourning a "departed" loved one into
a sanitized reunion of family and friends. The deceased are not "dead,"
they have merely "passed on." Euphemisms proliferate. 
 It has not always been so. Our forebears, young and old alike,
frequently witnessed the slaughter of animals (or their capture by
predators), and they were not spared the reality of human death. They
could not avoid this reality, but they could laugh at it. 
 Laughter is one of humankind's most basic defense mechanisms. Even in
the face of death, we can show our resolve and demonstrate our last
bastion of control by doing the unexpected: laughing. Gallows humor, in
one form or another, permeates pre-industrial European folklore, even
making its way into children's nursery tales and rhymes. Indeed, some
critics have claimed that traditional nursery rhymes are preoccupied with
death and violence and have hence urged that they be rewritten for a more
humane and enlightened era. Consider the following catalog of horrors
ostensibly found in traditional children's rhymes by Geoffrey
Handley-Taylor, writing in 1952: 
 The average collection of 200 traditional nursery rhymes contains
approximately 100 rhymes which personify all that is glorious and ideal
for the child. Unfortunately, the remaining 100 rhymes harbor unsavory
elements. The incidents listed below occur in the average collection and
may be accepted as a reasonably conservative estimate based on a general
survey of this type of literature. 
 
 8 allusions to murder (unclassified),  
 2 cases of choking to death,  
 1 case of cutting a human being in half,  
 1 case of decapitation,  
 1 case of death by squeezing,  
 1 case of death by shriveling,  
 1 case of death by starvation,  
 1 case of boiling to death,  
 1 case of death by hanging,  
 1 case of death by drowning,  
 4 cases of killing domestic animals,  
 1 case of body snatching,  
 21 cases of death (unclassified),  
 7 cases relating to the severing of limbs,  
 1 case of the desire to have a limb severed,  
 2 cases of self-inflicted injury,  
 4 cases relating to the breaking of limbs,  
 1 allusion to a bleeding heart,  
 1 case of devouring human flesh,  
 5 threats of death,  
 1 case of kidnapping,  
 12 cases of torment and cruelty to human beings and animals,  
 8 cases of whipping and lashing,  
 3 allusions to blood,  
 14 cases of stealing and general dishonesty,  
 15 allusions to maimed human beings and animals,  
 1 allusion to undertakers,  
 2 allusions to graves,  
 23 cases of physical violence (unclassified),  
 1 case of lunacy,  
 16 allusions to misery and sorrow,  
 1 case of drunkenness,  
 4 cases of cursing,  
 1 allusion to marriage as a form of death,  
 1 case of scorning the blind,  
 1 case of scorning prayer,  
 9 cases of children being lost or abandoned,  
 2 cases of house burning,  
 9 allusions to poverty and want,  
 5 allusions to quarreling,  
 2 cases of unlawful imprisonment,  
 2 cases of racial discrimination.  
 Expressions of fear, weeping, moans of anguish, biting, pain and
evidence of supreme selfishness may be found in almost every other
page. 
 
 
 Source: As quoted by Baring-Gould,  The Annotated Mother
Goose,  pp. 20-21. 
 Nursery rhymes have no monopoly on such tragedies. The following tales
are known, in many variations, throughout Europe: 
 
 The little hen choked on a nut. The cock ran to seek help, but
when he returned, the hen had already died. Six mice pulled her funeral
carriage, but they slipped into a stream and drowned. The little cock dug
her a grave; then he sat down and mourned until he died. 
 Source: " The Death of 
the Little Hen " (type 2021, Grimm, no.
80). For additional examples see Ashliman,  A Guide to Folktales,
 pp. 311-312. 
 
 A flea and a louse were brewing beer. The louse fell in and
was killed. A door, a broom, a cart, an ash pile, a tree, and a girl all
joined the flea in mourning the louse's death. Then a spring broke loose
and drowned all the mourners. 
 Source:  Little Louse 
and Little 
Flea , (type 2022, Grimm, no. 30). For additional examples see 
 Mourning the Death of a Spouse:
Chain Tales of Aarne-Thompson Type 2022  and  
Ashliman,  A Guide to Folktales,  p.
312

 
 
 A pancake rolled out the door and down the road. Many animals
tried to stop it, but it rolled past them all. A pig offered to carry it
across a brook. The pancake agreed, and the pig swallowed it in one
gulp. 
 Source: "The Pancake" (type 2025, Norway, Thompson,  100
Favorite Folktales,  no. 100). For additional examples see 
 The Runaway Pancake: Folktales of 
Aarne-Thompson 
Type 2025  
and Ashliman,
 A Guide to Folktales,  pp. 312-313 
 
 An acorn fell upon Chicken-licken's head, and she thought that
the sky had fallen, so she set off to tell the king. On the way she was
joined by Hen-len, Cock-lock, Duck-luck, Drake-lake, Goose-loose,
Gander-lander, Turkey-lurkey, and finally Fox-lox. Fox-lox offered to show
them the way, but instead he took them to his den, where he and his young
ones ate up poor Chicken-licken, Hen-len, Cock-lock, Duck-luck,
Drake-lake, Goose-loose, Gander-lander, and Turkey-lurkey, and they never
saw the king to tell him that the sky had fallen!