An unusual (at least for twentieth-century taste) statue stands guard
at in Bern, Switzerland. High on a pedestal at the  Kornhausplatz ,
in the center of the old city, stands an ogre,  der 
 Chindlifrässer,  surrounded by terrified children. He has
captured a half dozen children. They are in his pockets and arms, all
awaiting the fate of the one whose head he has taken entirely into his
mouth. Since about 1545 this statue has graphically warned Swiss children
of the potentially dire consequences of disobedience.  
 Note: The Swiss children frightened by this bogey included, I
presume, my grandfather Johann Aeschlimann (1868-1943) and my wife's
great-grandparents Jacob Spori (1847-1903) and Magdalena Röschi
Spori (1851-1900). For an account of the legendary background of this
statue see Ernst Ludwig Rochholz,  Schweizersagen aus dem Aargau 
(Aarau: Sauerländer, 1856), vol. 2, p. 209. 
 The Swiss are, course, not alone in their use of such primitive
psychological pedagogy. Bächtold-Stäubli, in the index to his
 Handwörterbuch des deutschen Aberglaubens,  lists no fewer than
twenty-eight different spirits who punish bad German children, often
fatally. England too has its share of bogeys, hobgoblins, and bugbears,
one of whom carries the German-sounding name Menschikoff: 
 Baby, baby, naughty baby, 
Hush! you squalling thing, I say; 
Peace this instant! peace! or maybe 
Menschikoff will pass this way. 
 Baby, baby, he's a giant, 
Black and tall as Rouen's steeple, 
Sups and dines and lives reliant 
Every day on naughty people. 
 Baby, baby, if he hears you 
As he gallops past the house, 
Limb from limb at once he'll tear you 
Just as pussy tears a mouse. 
 And he'll beat you, beat you, beat you, 
And he'll beat you all to pap; 
And he'll eat you, eat you, eat you, 
Gobble you, gobble you, snap! snap! snap! 
 Note: "Menschikoff" is probably a corruption of "Menschenkopf"
(human head). In some versions of this poem the ogre is named "Wellington"
or "Bonaparte." Source: Eliza Gutch and Mabel Peacock,  County
Folk-Lore , vol. 5:  Examples of Printed Folk-Lore Concerning
Lincolnshire  (London: Folk-Fore Society, 1908), pp.
383-384. 
 Naughty or disobedient children often meet tragic ends in fairy tales.
The Germans have a descriptive word for this sub-genre of cautionary
tales:  Schreckmärchen  (scare-tales) .  One of the most
famous of such stories is the tale of "Little Red Riding Hood" who in many
versions -- including the classical telling by Perrault -- does not
survive
her encounter with the wolf. She disobeys her mother, leaves the straight
and narrow path, gets into bed with an unprincipled male, and pays for her
indiscretion with her life. Unlike Perrault, the Grimms let their "Little
Red-Cap" escape, but not all disobedient children in their collection get
a second chance: 
 A little girl went to see Frau Trude, although her parents
told her not to. On the steps she saw a black man. Frau Trude said it was
a charcoal burner. Then she saw a green man. "He was a hunter," said Frau
Trude. Then there was a blood-red man. "He was a butcher," was the
explanation. Finally the girl said, "When I saw you through the window, it
looked like the devil with a head of fire." Frau Trude answered by turning
the girl into a block of wood, which she threw into the
fire. 
 Source: Retold from  Frau Trude  
(Grimm, no. 43, type
334). 
 The girl who spoke to the wolf (in Perrault's account) and the girl who
visited Frau Trude were adequately warned by their parents but still
yielded to temptations that, as it turned out, were fatal. The wolf and
the witch in these two stories are believable symbols of real threats to
children in any era. The children relaxed their guard and were destroyed
by the evils that well-meaning adults had warned them about. In some
stories, however, it is not evil per se that takes the disobedient child,
but God himself: 
 There was once a child that was stubborn and did not do what
his mother wanted. For this reason God was displeased with him and caused
him to fall ill, and no doctor could help him, and in a short time he lay
on his deathbed. He was buried in a grave and covered with earth, but his
little arm came forth and reached up, and it didn't help when they put it
back in and put fresh earth over it, for the little arm always came out
again. So the mother herself had to go to the grave and beat the little
arm with a switch, and as soon as she had done that, it withdrew, and the
child finally came to peace beneath the ground. 
 Source: Literal translation of   The Willful Child  (Grimm, no.
117, type 779). 
 The Grimms derived this story from an oral tradition of miracle
stories, legends whose credibility was reinforced both by theology and by
sacred relics. For example: 
 In the church at Lunow, three quarters of a mile from
Oderberg, there is a chopped off, dried up hand on display. It is clenched
into a fist and holds a switch between its fingers. It comes from a son
who in a godless manner had once struck his father. God himself punished
him, for when he died and was buried, his hand emerged from the grave.
However often they reburied it, it always reappeared. Finally they beat it
with a switch, thinking that it would then return to beneath the earth,
but that did not help. Therefore they chopped off the hand, put the switch
in its fist, and placed it in the church at Lunow as an eternal warning to
godless children. 
 Source: Hand wächst aus dem Grabe" (Kuhn and Schwartz,
 Norddeutsche Sagen, Märchen und Gebräuche , pp. 44-45, no.
46). Essentially the same story describes the origin of a withered-hand
relic on display in the village church at Groß-Redensleben, one hour
from Seehausen ("Die Hand auf dem Grabe," Temme,  Die Volkssagen der
Altmark , pp. 48-49, no. 56). According to Temme, this legend also was
told frequently in Szamaiten and in Poland. 
 What can one say about stories so flagrantly cruel? For good or for
bad, literary, cultural, and theological traditions have taught us that it
is good when a wicked person dies (countless evildoers meet violent ends
in folktales, and we shed no tears in sympathy). But can any reasonable
person of today see justice in punishment, both before and after death,
meted out to the "godless" children in the above tales?