alive 
 These stories not only turn the exploitation of the old into a joke,
they also make light of problems encountered by the survivors in disposing
of the corpse. These tales thus reflect the attitude that an old person
can, at the same time, be both an expendable resource and a troublesome
burden. This latter feature has given rise to an entire family of tales
generically called "Disposing of the Corpse" (type 1536). An Icelandic
version entitled "The Woman that Was Killed Four Times" is particularly
revealing. It relates how a woman killed her old mother-in-law (who lived
with her and her husband) and then set the body in a kneeling position
over her husband's treasure chest. The husband thinks the "intruder" is a
burglar and stabs her. Recognizing the corpse as his own mother, he
enlists his wife's help to dispose of the body. The younger woman twice
again sets up similar tricks. Thus, she can rid herself of her aging
mother-in-law only after she has had her "killed" four times. 
 Source: "Die viermal getötete Frau," Schier,
 Märchen aus Island,  no. 43." 
 The image of the aging parent as a troublesome burden is only thinly
veiled behind the curtain of slapstick in these tales. And indeed, similar
motifs are still extant in the active folklore of the twentieth century.
"Disposing of Grandmother's Corpse" is still a popular theme in European
and American folktales. 
 Note: Jan Harold Brunvand gives numerous examples, with
interpretations, of this and related urban legends in  The Vanishing
Hitchhiker,  ch. 5. See also Alan Dundes, "On the Psychology of
Legend," in  American Folk Legend; A Symposium,  Wayland D. Hand, ed.
(Berkeley: University of California Press, 1971), pp. 33-36. The legend
was built into the popular film  National Lampoon's   Vacation 
starring Chevy Chase. 
 "The Stolen Corpse," collected in 1963 in England is typical of
versions told throughout Europe and America. This story, like most of its
counterparts, claims to be true. Its pedigree, following the tradition of
legends, is established in the tale's opening sentence: "This story was
told me by my cousin, who had heard it from a friend in Leeds, about a
couple whom he knew, who went for a camping holiday in Spain with their
car." The account, retold below, continues: 
 They took his stepmother with them, and the old woman died one
night in her tent. Not knowing how to deal with the foreign bureaucracy,
they rolled the corpse up in a tent and tied it to the roof of their car.
However, at their first coffee stop someone stole the car. Thus they
returned to England without their car and without the stepmother. However,
they were unable to prove her death for their
inheritance. 
 Source: Briggs and Tongue,  Folktales of England,  no.
48. 
 The "stolen corpse" legends are exemplary in their economy. The burden
(perceived or real) of an old person, nearly always a woman, on her family
is concentrated into a single symbolic event, their inconvenience at
having to deal with her corpse while on a family vacation. The problem
always has the same solution -- theft. Here is poetic justice: The
antisocial elements that normally cause us anxiety and grief at last bring
us relief, and they in turn will have to answer the embarrassing and
potentially threatening questions about the corpse in their luggage.
However, getting rid of the old dependent does have a price: the family
car and tangled legalities concerning her will and insurance.