In spite of the numerous tales and proverbs celebrating the wisdom of
old people and promoting their care, folklore is replete with reflections
of a basic distrust of age. Various demonic personages, notably
changelings and the devil himself, can be rendered powerless by tricking
them into revealing their age. More significantly, in pre-industrial
Europe superstitions abound that cast suspicion at old people, especially
women. Proverbs and popular superstitions state the claim succinctly: 
 
 If the devil can't come himself, he sends an old woman.  
 It is not good if one goes out in the morning and encounters an old
woman.  
 He who walks between two old women early in the morning shall have
only bad luck the rest of the day.  
 To meet old women first thing in the morning means bad luck; young
people, good luck.  
 Many men would rather let themselves be beaten to death, than to pass
between two old women.  
 A person on his way to an important undertaking will have bad luck if
he encounters an old woman. Encountering a young girl will bring him good
luck. 
 
 
 Source: Wander,  Deutsches Sprichwörter-Lexikon , 
vol.
4, col. 1105. Simrock,  Die deutschen Sprichwörter , p. 554;
Grimm,  Deutsche Mythologie , vol. 3, items 58, 380, 791, 938,
1015. 
 Further, the sinister nature of old women is reflected in numerous
folktales, for example: 
 An old woman, promised a pair of shoes by the devil if she
could bring discord to a happily married couple, told the wife that she
could increase her husband's love by cutting a few hairs from his chin.
She then told the husband that his wife was plotting to cut his throat
while he slept. The man pretended to sleep. Seeing his wife silently
approaching with a razor, he struck her dead with a
stick. 
 Source: Retold from "An Old Woman Sows Discord," Ranke,
 Folktales of Germany , no. 66. Type 1353. 
 Such tales help explain the widespread superstition, documented above,
that if the first person you saw in the morning was an old woman, you
would have bad luck. A curious variant on this view is the belief that
meeting a virgin or a priest first thing in the morning also would bring
bad luck, whereas meeting a whore would bring good fortune. Germans
formerly believed that old people had the power to attract vitality from
young people, but this -- of course -- came at the expense of the latter.
The
fear of oldsters (especially females) is further reflected in the fairy
tales of many countries, where old women (even those who at first appear
to be helpful and kindly) frequently turn out to be sinister witches. Even
in those instances where an old person helps the hero or heroine, the aid
is often suspicious, and the old person rarely shares in the
reward. 
 Sources: Grimm,  Deutsche Mythologie,  vol. 3, p. 440, 
item
177. Bächtold-Stäubli,  Handwörterbuch des deutschen
Aberglaubens,  vol. 1, col. 324.