Johann Faustus was born in Roda in the province of Weimar, of
God-fearing parents. 
 Although he often lacked common sense and understanding, at an early
age he proved himself a scholar, mastering not only the Holy Scriptures,
but also the sciences of medicine, mathematics, astrology, sorcery,
prophesy, and necromancy. 
 These pursuits aroused in him a desire to commune with the Devil,
so--having made the necessary evil preparations--he repaired one night to
a crossroads in the Spesser Forest near Wittenberg. Between nine and ten
o'clock he described certain circles with his staff and thus conjured up
the Devil. 
 Feigning anger at having been summoned against his will, the Devil
arrived in the midst of a great storm. After the winds and lightning had
subsided the Devil asked Dr. Faustus to reveal his will, to which the
scholar replied that he was willing to enter into a pact. The Devil, for
his part, would agree: 
 
 to serve Dr. Faustus for as long as he should live,  
 to provide Dr. Faustus with whatever information he might request, and
 
 never to utter an untruth to Dr. Faustus.  
 The Devil agreed to these particulars, on the condition that Dr.
Faustus would promise: 
 
 at the expiration of twenty-four years to surrender his body and soul
to the Devil,  
 to confirm the pact with a signature written in his own blood, and
 
 to renounce his Christian faith.  
 Having reached an agreement, the pact was drawn up, and Dr. Faustus
formalized it with his own blood. 
 Henceforth Dr. Faustus' life was filled with comfort and luxury, but
marked by excess and perversion. Everything was within his grasp: elegant
clothing, fine wines, sumptuous food, beautiful women--even Helen of Troy
and the concubines from the Turkish sultan's harem. He became the most
famous astrologer in the land, for his horoscopes never failed. No longer
limited by earthly constraints, he traveled from the depths of hell to the
most distant stars. He amazed his students and fellow scholars with his
knowledge of heaven and earth. 
 However, for all his fame and fortune, Dr. Faustus could not revoke the
twenty-four year limit to the Devil's indenture. Finally recognizing the
folly of his ways, he grew ever more melancholy. He bequeathed his worldly
goods to his young apprentice, a student named Christoph Wagner from the
University of Wittenberg . 
 Shortly after midnight on the last day of the twenty-fourth year, the
students who had assembled at the home of the ailing Dr. Faustus heard a
great commotion. First came the sound of a ferocious storm and then the
shouts--first terrifyingly loud then ever weaker--from their mentor. 
 At daybreak they ventured into his room. Bloodstains were everywhere.
Bits of brain clung to the walls. Here they discovered an eye, and there a
few teeth. Outside they found the corpse, its members still twitching,
lying on a manure pile. 
 His horrible death thus taught them the lesson that had escaped their
master during his lifetime: to hold fast to the ways of God, and to reject
the Devil and all his temptations.