Many long years ago a Count Bruno lived in the castle at Querfurt. He
was a great converter of the heathens, and made many trips to them. Now he
had a wife who once scolded a beggar woman for having so many children
while not knowing how to feed them. The beggar woman cursed her, and the
next time she gave birth, she had nine boys at the same time.
 Count Bruno had just set forth on a trip to the heathens, but when he
came to a meadow just outside the town gate, his donkey stood still and
refused to proceed. Try as he might, he could not get the donkey to move.
Then he perceived that this was a sign from God that he should not
undertake the trip, and he turned around.
 In the meantime, the countess, fearing that her husband would think ill
of her when he learned that she had given birth to nine children at one
time, ordered the midwife to put eight of them into a kettle and to drown
them. The latter was carrying the kettle toward the spring near the castle
-- which to this day is called Bruno's Spring -- when she was met by Count
Bruno, who was just returning to the castle. Hearing one of the baby boys
crying , he asked her what she had in the kettle. She could not keep it a
secret, and told him everything that had happened. He commanded her to
keep secret what he was going to do, and told her to tell his wife that
she had drowned the children.
 He took the children to different people who lived in the same street
-- the street is still called Bruno Street -- and had them raised there.
 One day after they had grown, he had the eight boys dress up exactly
like the ninth one. He then asked the countess what a mother would deserve
who drowned her own children, saying that such a case had come before him,
and he did not know the right punishment. She said that such a woman
should be forced to stand in red hot shoes. Scarcely had she said this
when her nine children -- which the count had kept hidden until now --
stepped before her. He asked her to identify her own child from among
them. She could not do this, and he subjected her to the judgment that she
herself had spoken.
 To commemorate the fact that a donkey had prevented him from continuing
on his journey, he had a chapel built in meadow where this happened, and
the meadow is still called Donkey Meadow. Every year during the Easter
week a fair was held and a great dispensation was granted there. 
 The fair still takes place every year, and in the castle they still
have the kettle and the iron shoes in which the countess suffered her
punishment.