Tebaldo, Prince of Salerno, wishes to have his
only daughter Doralice to wife, but she, through her father's persecution,
flees to England, where she marries Genese the king, and has by him two
children. These, having been slain by Tebaldo, are avenged by their father
King Genese. 
 
I cannot think there is one amongst us who has not realized by his own
experience how great is the power of love, and how sharp are the arrows he
is wont to shoot into our corruptible flesh. He, like a mighty king,
directs and governs his empire without a sword, simply by his individual
will, as you will be able to understand from the tenor of the story which
I about to tell to you.
 You must know, dear ladies, that Tebaldo, Prince of Salerno, according
to the story I have heard repeated many times by my elders, had to wife a
modest and prudent lady of good lineage, and by her he had a daughter who
in beauty and grace outshone all the other ladies of Salerno; but it would
have been well for Tebaldo if she had never seen the light, for in that
case the grave misadventure which befell him would never have happened.
 His wife, young in years but of mature wisdom, when she lay a-dying
besought her husband, whom she loved very dearly, never to take for his
wife any woman whose finger would not exactly fit the ring which she
herself wore; and the prince, who loved his wife no less than she loved
him, swore by his head that he would observe her wish.
 After the good princess had breathed her last and had been honorably
buried, Tebaldo indulged in the thought of wedding again, but he bore well
in mind the promise he had made to his wife, and was firmly resolved to
keep her saying.
 However, the report that Tebaldo, Prince of Salerno, was seeking
another mate soon got noised abroad, and came to the ears of many maidens
who, in worth and in estate, were no whit his inferiors; but Tebaldo,
whose first care was to fulfil the wishes of his wife who was dead, made
it a condition that any damsel who might be offered to him in marriage
should first try on her finger his wife's ring, to see whether it fitted,
and not having found one who fulfilled this condition -- the ring being
always found too big for this and too small for that -- he was forced to
dismiss them all without further parley.
 Now it happened one day that the daughter of Tebaldo, whose name was
Doralice, sat at table with her father; and she, having espied her
mother's ring lying on the board, slipped it on her finger and cried out,
"See my father, how well my mother's ring fits me!" And the prince, when
he saw what she had done, assented.
 But not long after this the soul of Tebaldo was assailed by a strange
and diabolical temptation to take to wife his daughter Doralice, and for
many days he lived tossed about between yea and nay. At last, overcome by
the strength of this devilish intent, and fired by the beauty of the
maiden, he one day called her to him and said, "Doralice, my daughter,
while your mother was yet alive, but fast nearing the end of her days, she
besought me never to take to wife any woman whose finger would not fit the
ring she herself always wore in her lifetime, and I swore by my head that
I would observe this last request of hers. Wherefore, when I felt the time
was come for me to wed anew, I made trial of many maidens, but not one
could I find who could wear your mother's ring, except yourself. Therefore
I have decided to take you for my wife, for thus I shall satisfy my own
desire without violating the promise I made to your mother."
 Doralice, who was as pure as she was beautiful, when she listened to
the evil designs of her wicked father, was deeply troubled in her heart;
but, taking heed of his vile and abominable lust, and fearing the effects
of his rage, she made no answer and went out of his presence with an
untroubled face.
 As there was no one whom she could trust so well as her old nurse, she
repaired to her at once as the surest bulwark of her safety, to take
counsel as to what she should do. The nurse, when she had heard the story
of the execrable lust of this wicked father, spake words of comfort to
Doralice, for she knew well the constancy and steadfast nature of the
girl, and that she would be ready to endure any torment rather than accede
to her father's desire, and promised to aid her in keeping her virginity
unsullied by such terrible disgrace.
 After this the nurse thought of nothing else than how she might best
find a way for Doralice out of this strait, planning now this and now
that, but finding no method which gained her entire approval. She would
fain have had Doralice take to flight and put long distance betwixt her
and her father, but she feared the craft of Tebaldo, and lest the girl
should fall into his hands after her flight, feeling certain that in such
event he would put her to death.
 So while the faithful nurse was thus taking counsel with herself, she
suddenly hit upon a fresh scheme, which was what I will now tell you. In
the chamber of the dead lady there was a fair cassone, or clothes-chest,
magnificently carved, in which Doralice kept her richest dresses and her
most precious jewels, and this wardrobe the nurse alone could open. So she
removed from it by stealth all the robes and the ornaments that were
therein, and bestowed them elsewhere, placing in it a good store of a
certain liquor which had such great virtue, that whosoever took a spoonful
of it, or even less, could live for a long time without further
nourishment.
 Then, having called Doralice, she shut her therein, and bade her remain
in hiding until such time as God should send her better fortune, and her
father be delivered from the bestial mood which had come upon him.
 The maiden, obedient to the good old woman's command, did all that was
told her; and the father, still set upon his accursed design, and making
no effort to restrain his unnatural lust, demanded every day what had
become of his daughter; and, neither finding any trace of her, or knowing
aught where she could be, his rage became so terrible that he threatened
to have her killed as soon as he should find her.
 Early one morning it chanced that Tebaldo went into the room where the
chest was, and as soon as his eye fell upon it, he felt, from the
associations connected with it, that he could not any longer endure the
sight of it, so he gave orders that it should straightway be taken out and
placed elsewhere and sold, so that its presence might not bee an offence
to him. The servants were prompt to obey their master's command, and,
having taken the thing on their shoulders, they bore it away to the
marketplace. It chanced that there was at that time in the city a rich
dealer from Genoa, who, as soon as he caught sight of the sumptuously
carved cassone, admired it greatly, and settled with himself that he would
not let it go from him, however much he might have to pay for it. So,
having accosted the servant who was charged with the sale of it, and
learnt the price demanded, he bought it forthwith, and gave orders to a
porter to carry it away and place it on board his ship.
 The nurse, who was watching the trafficking from a distance, was well
pleased with the issue thereof, though she grieved sore at losing the
maiden. Wherefore she consoled herself by reflecting that when it comes to
the choice of evils it is ever wiser to avoid the greater.
 The merchant, having set sail from Salerno with his carven chest and
other valuable wares, voyaged to the island of Britain, known to us today
as England, and landed at a port near which the country was spread out in
a vast plain.
 Before he had been there long, Genese, who had lately been crowned king
of the island, happened to be riding along the seashore, chasing a fine
stag, which, in the end, ran down to the beach and took to the water.
 The king, feeling wary and worn with the long pursuit, was fain to rest
awhile, and, having caught sight of the ship, he sent to ask the master of
it to give him something to drink; and the latter, feigning to be ignorant
he was talking to the king, greeted Genese familiarly, and gave him a
hearty welcome, finally prevailing upon him to go on board his vessel.
 The king, when he saw the beautiful clothes-chest so finely carved, was
taken with a great longing to possess it, and grew so impatient to call it
his own that every hour seemed like a thousand till he should be able to
claim it. He then asked the merchant the price he asked for it, and was
answered that the price was a very heavy one. The king, being now more
taken than ever with the beautiful handicraft, would not leave the ship
till he had arranged a price with the merchant, and, having sent for money
enough to pay the price demanded, he took his leave, and straightway
ordered the cassone to be borne to the palace and placed in his chamber.
 Genese, being yet over-young to wive, found his chief pleasure in going
every day to the chase. Now that the cassone was transported into his
bedroom, with the maiden Doralice hidden inside, she heard, as was only
natural, all that went on in the king's chamber, and, in pondering over
her past misfortunes, hoped that a happier future was in store for her.
And as soon as the king had departed for the chase in the morning, and had
left the room clear, Doralice would issue from the clothes-chest, and
would deftly put the chamber in order, and sweep it, and make the bed.
Then she would adjust the bed curtains, and put on the coverlet cunningly
embroidered with fine pearls, and two beautifully ornamented pillows
thereto. After this, the fair maiden strewed the bed with roses, violets,
and other sweet-smelling flowers, mingled with Cyprian spices which
exhaled a subtle odor and soothed the brain to slumber.
 Day after day Doralice continued to compose the king's chamber in this
pleasant fashion, without being seen of anyone, and thereby gave Genese
much gratification; for every day when he came back from the chase it
seemed to him as if he was greeted by all the perfumes of the East.
 One day he questioned the queen his mother, and the ladies who were
about her, as to which of them had so kindly and graciously adorned his
room and decked the bed with roses and violets and sweet scents. They
answered, one and all, that they had no part in all this, for every
morning, when they went to put the chamber in order, they found the bed
strewn with flowers and perfumes.
 Genese, when he heard this, determined to clear up the mystery, and the
next morning gave out that he was going to hunt at a village ten leagues
distant. But, in lieu of going forth, he quietly hid himself in the room,
keeping his eyes steadily fixed on the door, and waiting to see what might
occur. He had not been long on the watch before Doralice, looking more
beautiful than the sun, came out of the cassone and began to sweep the
room, and to straighten the carpets, and to deck the bed, and diligently
to set everything in order, as was her wont.
 The beautiful maiden had no sooner done her kindly and considerate
office, than she made as if she would go back to her hiding place. But the
king, who had keenly taken note of everything, suddenly caught her by the
hand, and, seeing that she was very fair, and fresh as a lily, asked her
who she was; whereupon the trembling girl confessed that she was the
daughter of a prince. She declared, however, that she had forgotten what
was his name, on account of her long imprisonment in the cassone, and she
would say nothing as to the reason why she had been shut therein. The
king, after he had heard her story, fell violently in love with her, and,
with the full consent of his mother, made her his queen, and had by her
two fair children.
 In the meantime Tebaldo was still mastered by his wicked and
treacherous passion, and, as he could find no trace of Doralice, search as
he would, he began to believe that she must have been hidden in the coffer
which he had caused to be sold, and that, having escaped his power, she
might be wandering about from place to place.
 Therefore, with his rage will burning against her, he set himself to
try whether perchance he might not discover her whereabouts. He attired
himself as a merchant, and, having gathered together a great store of
precious stones and jewels, marvelously wrought in gold, quitted Salerno
unknown to anyone, and scoured all the nations and countries round about,
finally meeting by hazard the trader who had originally purchased the
clothes-chest. Of him he demanded whether he had been satisfied with his
bargain, and into whose hands the chest had fallen, and the trader replied
that he had sold the cassone to the King of England for double the price
he had given for it.
 Tebaldo, rejoicing at this news, made his way to England, and when he
had landed there and journeyed to the capital, he made a show of his
jewels and golden ornaments, amongst which were some spindles and distaffs
cunningly wrought, crying out the while, "Spindles and distaffs for sale,
ladies."
 It chanced that one of the dames of the court, who was looking out of a
window, heard this and saw the merchant and his goods; whereupon she ran
to the queen and told her there was below a merchant who had for sale the
most beautiful golden spindles and distaffs that ever were seen. The queen
commanded him to be brought into the palace, and he came up the stairs
into her presence, but she did not recognize him in his merchant's guise.
Moreover, she was not thinking ever to behold her father again; but
Tebaldo recognized his daughter at once.
 The queen, when she saw how fair was the work of the spindles and
distaffs, asked of the merchant what price he put upon them.
 "The prince is great," he answered, "but to you I will give one of them
for nothing, provided you suffer me to gratify a caprice of mine. This is
that I may be permitted to sleep one night in the same room as your
children."
 The good Doralice, in her pure and simple nature, never suspected the
accursed design of the feigned merchant, and, yielding to the persuasion
of her attendants, granted his request.
 But before the merchant was led to the sleeping chamber, certain ladies
of the court deemed it wise to offer him a cup of wine well drugged to
make him sleep sound, and when night had come and the merchant seemed
overcome with fatigue, one of the ladies conducted him into the chamber of
the king's children, where there was prepared for him a sumptuous couch.
 Before she left him the lady said, "Good man, are you not thirsty?"
 "Indeed I am," he replied; whereupon she handed him the drugged wine in
a silver cup. But the crafty Tebaldo, while feigning to drink the wine,
spilled it over his garments, and then lay down to rest.
 Now there was in the children's a side door through which it was
possible to pass into the queen's apartment. At midnight, when all was
still, Tebaldo stole through this, and, going up to the bed beside which
the queen had left her clothes, he took away a small dagger, which he had
marked the day before hanging from her girdle. Then he returned to the
children's room and killed them both with the dagger, which he immediately
put back into its scabbard, all bloody as it was. And having opened a
window he let himself down by a cord.
 As soon as the shopmen of the city were astir, he went to a barber's
and had his long beard taken off, for fear he might be recognized, and
having put on different clothes he walked about the city without
apprehension.
 In the palace the nurses went, as soon as they awakened, to suckle the
children; but when they came to the cradles they found them both lying
dead. Whereupon they began to scream and to weep bitterly, and to rend
their hair and their garments, thus laying bare their breasts.
 The dreadful tiding came quickly to the ears of the king and queen, and
they ran barefooted and in their nightclothes to the spot, and when they
saw the dead bodies of the babes they wept bitterly. Soon the report of
the murder of the two children was spread throughout the city, and, almost
at the same time, it was rumored that there had just arrived a famous
astrologer, who, by studying the courses of the various stars, could lay
bare the hidden mysteries of the past.
 When this came to the ears of the king, he caused the astrologer to be
summoned forthwith, and, when he was come into the royal presence,
demanded whether or not he could tell the name of the murderer of the
children.
 The astrologer replied that he could, and whispering secretly in the
king's ear he said, "Sire, let all the men and women of your court who are
wont to wear a dagger at their side be summoned before you, and if amongst
these you shall find one whose dagger is befouled with blood in its
scabbard, that same will be the murderer of your children."
 Wherefore the king at once gave command that all his courtiers should
present themselves, and, when they were assembled, he diligently searched
with his own hands to see if any one of them might have a bloody dagger at
his side, but he could find none. Then he returned to the astrologer --
who was no other than Tebaldo himself -- and told him how his quest had
been vain, and that all in the palace, save his mother and the queen, had
been searched.
 To which the astrologer replied, "Sire, search everywhere and respect
no one, and then you will surely find the murderer."
 So the king searched first his mother, and then the queen, and when he
took the dagger which Doralice wore and drew it from the scabbard, he
found it covered with blood.
 Then the king, convinced by this proof, turned to the queen and said to
her, "O, wicked and inhuman woman, enemy of your own flesh and blood,
traitress to your own children! What desperate madness has led you to dye
your hands in the blood of these babes? I swear that you shall suffer the
full penalty fixed for such a crime."
 But though the king in his rage would fain have sent her straightway to
a shameful death, his desire for vengeance prompted him to dispose of her
so that she might suffer longer and more cruel torment. Wherefore he
commanded that she should be stripped and thus naked buried up to her chin
in the earth, and that she should be well fed in order that she might
linger long and the worms devour her flesh while she still lived. The
queen, seasoned to misfortune in the past, and conscious of her innocence,
contemplated her terrible doom with calmness and dignity.
 Tebaldo, when he learned that the queen had been adjudged guilty and
condemned to a cruel death, rejoiced greatly, and, as soon as he had taken
leave of the king, left England, quite satisfied with his work, and
returned secretly to Salerno. Arrived there, he told to the old nurse the
whole story of his adventures, and how Doralice had been sentenced to
death by her husband.
 As she listened, the nurse feigned to be as pleased as Tebaldo himself,
but in her heart she grieved sorely, overcome by this love which she had
always borne towards the princess, and the next morning she took horse
early and rode on day and night until she came to England.
 Immediately she repaired to the palace and went before the king, who
was giving public audience in the great hall, and, having thrown herself
at his feet, she demanded an interview on a matter which concerned the
honor of his crown. The king granted her request, and took her by the hand
and bade her rise.
 Then, when the rest of the company had gone and left them alone, the
nurse thus addressed the king, "Sire, know that Doralice, your wife, is my
child. She is not, indeed, the fruit of my womb, but I nourished her at
these breasts. She is innocent of the deed which is laid to her charge,
and for which she is sentenced to a lingering and cruel death. And you,
when you shall have learnt everything, and laid your hand upon the impious
murderer, and understood the reason which moved him to slay your children,
you will assuredly show her mercy and deliver her from these bitter and
cruel torments. And if you find that I speak falsely in this, I offer
myself to suffer the same punishment which the wretched Doralice is now
enduring."
 Then the nurse set forth fully from beginning to end the whole history
of Doralice's past life; and the king, when he heard it, doubted not the
truth of it, but forthwith gave orders that the queen, who was now more
dead than alive, should be taken out of the earth; which was done at once,
and Doralice, after careful nursing and ministration by physicians, was
restored to health.
 Next day King Genese stirred up through all his kingdom mighty
preparations for war, and gathered together a great army, which he
dispatched to Salerno. After a short campaign the city was captured, and
Tebaldo, bound hand and foot, taken back to England, where King Genese,
wishing to know the whole sum of his guilt, had him put upon the rack,
whereupon the wretched man made full confession.
 The next day he was conducted through the city in a cart drawn by four
horses, and then tortured with red-hot pincers like Gano di Magazza, and
after his body had been quartered, his flesh was thrown to be eaten of
ravenous dogs.
 And this was the end of the impious wretch Tebaldo. And King Genese and
Doralice his queen lived many years happily together, leaving at their
death divers children in their place.