At one time the renowned Dr. Faust sojourned in Erfurt. He lived in
Michelsgasse next to the great Collegium.  
 As a learned professor and with the permission of the academic senate
he lectured in the large auditorium of the Collegium Building about Greek
poets. Indeed, he explained Homer to his audience, the students,
describing the heroic figures of the Iliad and the Odyssey so
realistically that the students expressed their desire to see them with
their own eyes. He made this possible, conjuring them up from the
underworld, but when the students saw the powerful giant Polyphemus, they
all became terrified and wanted to see or hear nothing more from him.  
 He drove through the narrowest street in Erfurt with a double-span load
of hay, for which reason this street has ever since been called "Dr.
Faust's Street."  
 Once he came riding a horse that ate and ate and could never be
satisfied.  
 Another time he tapped all kinds of wine from a wooden table and made
the drunken drinking companions think that they saw grapes. They wanted to
cut them from the vines, but when he caused the deceptive image to
disappear, each one had another one's nose in his fingers instead of wine
grapes.  
 A house in Schössergasse is said to still have an opening in the
roof that can never be closed with roofing tiles because Faust used it for
his cloak rides.  
 He is said to have created a magnificent winter garden and provided
delicious meals for numerous noble guests, thus achieving a high
reputation.  
 Soon everyone in Erfurt was talking of nothing but Dr. Faust, and it
was feared that a great many people would be led astray through his
devilish arts.  
 Thus a learned monk by the name of Dr. Klinge was sent to convert him.
But Faust did not want to be converted. In response to the masses and
prayers directed at tearing him away from the devil, Dr. Faust said, "No,
my good Dr. Klinge, it would be disreputable for me to break the contract
that I signed with my blood. That would be dishonest. The devil has
honestly upheld his promises, and I will also keep my word with him."  
 "Then go to the devil, you cursed piece of devil's meat and member of
the devil's band!" cried the monk angrily. "Go to the eternal fires that
have been prepared for the devil and his angels!" And the monk ran to
Rector Magnificus and reported to him that Dr. Faustus was a totally
unrepentant sinner.  
 Then Faust was banished from the city of Erfurt, and never again has a
sorcerer been accepted there.