Wittenberg 
 
 It is not true, as some claimed as early as the middle of the sixteenth
century, that Dr. Faust grew up in Wittenberg and earned a doctorate of
theology there, that he lived near the outer gate and had a house and
garden in a street named Schneegasse (which never existed), and that he
was strangled by the devil in the village of Kimlich, a half mile from
Wittenberg, in the presence of several scholars and students. However, he
did spend time in Wittenberg and was tolerated there for a while, until he
became so crude that they tried to imprison him, and then fled to another
place. 
 While in Wittenberg he approached Philipp Melanchton, who read the book to
him, scolding him and warning him that if he did not immediately desist
from his evil ways he would come to an evil end, which did indeed happen.
He did not repent. 
 Now one day at ten o'clock in the morning Master Philipp was leaving
his study on his way downstairs to eat when Faust, who was with him at
that time, and whom he had vigorously scolded, said to him: "Master
Philipp, you always approach me with rough words. Someday, when you are
about to sit down to a meal, I am going to cause all the pots in the
kitchen to fly up the chimney, so that you and your guests will have
nothing to eat." 
 Thereupon Philipp answered him: "Desist from such talk! I ---- on your
art!" And he did desist. 
 Another old God-fearing man also tried to convert him. To show his
thanks, Faust sent a devil to the man's bedroom to frighten him as he was
going to bed. The devil walked about in the room, grunting like a sow. The
man, however, was not afraid. Armed with his faith, he ridiculed the
devil: "What a fine voice you have! You are singing like an angel who was
not allowed to remain in heaven because he wanted to be God's equal and
was thus thrust out for his pride and now wanders through people's houses
in the form of a sow!" With that the spirit, not wanting to be in a place
where he was ridiculed because of his apostasy and his wickedness,
returned to Faust and complained to him how he had been received
there. 
 Dr. Faust, however, did lead a student astray. Dr. Lercheimer himself
knew one of his friends well into an advanced age. This man had a crooked
mouth. Whenever he wanted a hare, he would go out into the woods, make his
hocus-pocus, and a hare would run right into his hands.