A young man living in Dordrecht had squandered all the wealth inherited from his father and had fallen deeply into debt. In these sad circumstances he did not know where to turn, or what he should do next. He spent many sleepless nights. Exhausted by his worries he finally fell into a fitful slumber. He saw a person before him who told him to travel to Kampen where he would meet someone on the bridge. He should do whatever this person told him to do. Only in this manner would he be able to recover from his miserable condition.   
The poor fellow saw this as a voice from heaven  and set off for Kampen.  Arriving safely, he spent most of the day walking back and forth on the bridge, but he did not see anyone who wanted to strike up a conversation with him.   
Finally a beggar who was seated there spoke to him and asked him why he looked so sad and why he continuously was walking back and forth on the bridge. At first he did not want to tell the beggar why he had come there, and he answered only with trivial comments. Finally, seeing in the beggar an honest and decent person, he related to him the whole story as to why he was there.   
He finally said, "I am lost if God does not come to my aid with a miracle."  
The beggar answered, "How could you be so stupid as to put your trust in a dream? Nothing is crazier. If I were so foolhardy, I would go to Dordrecht to dig up a great treasure there. I saw in a dream where it is buried under a certain tree."  
He then added details that revealed to the young man from Dordrecht that the treasure tree was in his father's garden. He laughed with the beggar and made fun of himself for having believed in such a dream. But his ridicule was not at all sincere.  
Soon afterward he took leave of the beggar and hurried back to Dordrecht. He went to the garden, found the location described by the beggar, dug beneath the tree, where he found a great treasure of silver and gold. With this he paid off his debts, and for the rest of his life lived in comfort and pleasure.