In a great forest there once lived a cowherd and a shepherd, and they
helped one another in times of need. The cowherd had a daughter and the
shepherd a son. From their childhood on they were inseparable, and the
older they became the fonder they grew of each other. Thus, when they came
of age the shepherd's son proposed to the shepherd's daughter, and she was
promised to him in marriage.
 Some time later an ugly dwarf approached the cowherd and asked for the
daughter's hand in marriage. He brought many valuable presents for the
mother and the daughter. The daughter could not stand the dwarf, because
he was so ugly, and she did not want to marry a dwarf in any event. The
mother did not like him either, but that did not stop her from accepting
his presents.
 One day he returned, again with many costly things, but this time the
mother said, "You are not going to get my daughter, no matter how many
presents you bring."
 The daughter added, "I do not want your presents at all, and I want you
even less!"
 Then the dwarf became very angry, threw the costly things on the floor,
and replied to the mother, "It's not that simple to get rid of me! Earlier
you accepted my presents, and I want to be paid for them. I will return
tomorrow at noon. If by then you know my name, then you may keep your
daughter, otherwise I will take her by force!"
 With that the dwarf disappeared. Great concern now ruled the cowherd's
household.
 Now the shepherd's son, while watching over his sheep in the forest,
had often seen the dwarf, but every time he had approached him, the dwarf
had disappeared. On this day he was watching over his sheep in the
vicinity of a cave, and this was the dwarf's cave. The shepherd stood
there, leaning on his staff, when suddenly the dwarf came by, as though he
were being driven through the forest by a windstorm, and he disappeared
into the cave. At the cave's entrance there was a yellow flower that the
shepherd's son had often admired because of its unusual color and shape.
Before entering the cave, the dwarf had touched the flower. A loud sound
came from within the cave. The shepherd's son listened, and he heard the
dwarf sing:
 Here I sit, 
Carving gold, 
My name is 
Holzrührlein Bonneführlein. 
If the mother knew that, 
She could keep her daughter. 
The shepherd's son took note of the name, because it seemed so very
unusual to him. That evening when he visited his sweetheart, and noticed
her concern, he told her everything that had happened, and comforted her.
The mother repeated the name over and over again until it came easily to
her, and now they were no longer fearful about the dwarf's return.
 The next day at noon he appeared as announced. He stepped up to the
mother and said sarcastically, "Now my dear lady, do you know my name?"
 The mother pretended to be afraid and answered, "Oh, what could your
name be? Are you not called Mäuserich?"
 The dwarf laughed and said, "Not even close!"
 "Is your name perhaps Ruppsteert?"
 "Wrong again!" laughed the dwarf.
 "Oh, what are you called then? Your name wouldn't be Holzrührlein
Bonneführlein, now would it?"
 The dwarf disappeared in an instant, and he was never heard from nor
seen again. The shepherd's son married the cowherd's daughter, and they
lived long and happy lives together.