Emperor Heinrich the Fowler liked to stay at Goslar, which he often did,
and
many stories are told about him there.  Above all they tell about how
marvelously beautiful his wife was, and how he could not be consoled when
she
died. 
After his grief had subsided somewhat, he revealed to his own daughter,
who was
almost more beautiful than her mother, his sinful desire to marry her.
She
appropriately resisted him, finally convincing him to first to travel to
the
courts of all the kings and counts in Europe in search of a spouse more
beautiful than she.  He traveled far and wide, but finally returned with
the
news that a more beautiful woman could not be found anywhere.  But still
she
resisted his pleas and his advances. 
Finally he set the condition that he would desist from his demands if she
could
create a blanket upon which all of the earth's animals could be seen.  She
went
into a small chapel in the upper city and fervently prayed to God, but she
found
no comfort in her prayers, so finally in despair she called upon the devil
to
come and help her.  He appeared immediately, saying that he would bring
the
blanket to her, if she could remain awake in the chapel for three days and
three
nights. 
She brought her little dog into the chapel with her and spent the time
ceaselessly praying.  However, during the third night, just as morning was
breaking, sleep almost overcame her.  At that moment the devil approached,
and
her little dog, seeing him, pulled at her skirt so vigorously that she
jumped
up. 
The devil angrily dropped the blanket, furiously threw the little dog
against
church wall, and disappeared.  She took the blanket to her father, who
then was
overcome by such powerful pain that he lost all will to live.  He
bewitched
himself into the Sudemer Mountain near Goslar, whose watchtower is
visible
throughout the region.  There he sits until the present day, and will
return
only when Goslar finds itself in great need, or when the Day of Judgment
arrives. 
Others say that the emperor is sitting in Rammel Mountain, and that before
his
death he had three stones mortared into the Goslar's city wall, saying
that he
would return when these stones fall out.  But no one knows which stones
they
are.