In the small village of Vestenberg, 2 1/2 hours from Ansbach, there is
a
large hill, surrounded by a deep moat. Traces of ancient towers are still
visible there. Remnants of grave containers can be found just below the
earth's surface. A beautiful oak forest lies adjacent to the hill. The
names of some of the places in this forest are  Himmelreich, 
Helgraben,  and
 Gründlein.   
 By the beginning of the middle ages Vestenberg was already the seat of
the noble family by the same name. The Vestenbergs were among the most
widely spread and wealthiest families of Franconia.... 
 The narration of an eighty-year-old woman: 
 
 When Vestenberg Castle was being built, the mason built a seat into
the wall. A child was placed on the seat to be sealed into the wall. The
child cried, so to pacify it, they gave it a beautiful red apple.  
 The unmarried woman, whose child it was, had given it up for a large
sum of money. 
 After the mason had finished mortaring the child into the wall, he gave
the mother a hard slap on the face, saying: "It would have been better if
you had begged your way throughout the country with your child." 
 
 
...
 
 
A superstitious man claimed that the railroad bridge over the Göltsch 
Valley near Reichenbach in Saxony cannot be completed. They cannot find 
firm ground. Whatever they build during the day disappears the following 
night. The work will not succeed until they sacrifice seven humans to the 
Evil One for it. They have already entombed one child in it. People 
suspected this, and for this reason the schoolmasters were asked to count 
their children, and it turned out that one child was missing. The narrator 
heard this account in a tavern in Nürnberg.   
In Hof a rumor was circulating among the superstitious that a man was 
seeking a child to entomb in the Göltsch Bridge. A gymnastics 
teacher, wearing his white gymnast's suit and carrying a rope in his hand, 
chanced to walk down the disreputable Fisher Street in Hof, where he so 
frightened the children that they all fled screaming into their houses. 
  
Between Breitenbrunn and Wollmetshofen in Swabia lies the Hartenberg 
Forest. A hill there was being excavated for gravel for road construction. 
All sorts of things were found there: charcoal, bones, broken containers, 
etc. A human skeleton was also excavated, which was not lying, but rather 
standing upright. According to legend there was a castle at Hartenberg. A 
donkey carried water to this castle. Once when the animal had not been 
seen for several days the peasants suspected that something had happened 
at Hartenberg, and they went there. To their astonishment they could see 
nothing of the castle, for it had sunk into the earth. Three days later 
they heard a rooster crowing from the depths.