Every culture has its own folk medicine: rituals, practices, and
preparations believed to cure illness and preserve good health. However,
not all health related rituals are directed at the patient's recovery. For
example, numerous European superstitions -- still extant in the nineteenth
century, and possibly later -- claimed to help the mortally ill die faster
and easier. From a purely medical perspective these were harmless acts.
Removing roof tiles or simply opening windows was widely believed to speed
death by giving the departing soul an easier exit. Similarly, some advised
filling every hollow space in the house, thus denying the reluctant soul a
hiding place. Other acts -- for example, taking away a dying person's
pillow, cutting a scrap from one's clothing, or not allowing one to 
clinch one's thumb in one's fist -- were more intrusive, but still 
relatively
harmless. 
 Sources: Grimm,  Deutsche Mythologie , vol. 3, p. 448, 
no.
439; p. 457, no. 664; p. 459, no. 721; p. 472, no. 992; p. 474, no. 1053.
Bartsch,  Sagen, Märchen und Gebräuche aus Meklenburg
 (1880), vol. 2, p. 89, nos. 273-276. Kuhn  Sagen, Gebräuche und
Märchen aus Westfalen  (1859), vol. 1, p. 47, no.
126. 
 However innocent these moves, their intent was clear to all concerned,
and without doubt they sometimes may have set the stage for more
aggressive acts. Such symbolic responses not only reflect a resignation
with the inevitability of death, but they also claim -- indirectly but
still
clearly -- that it is the survivors' prerogative to assist the natural
process of dying when it becomes evident that the time is right. Ancient
Europeans had little sympathy for the infirm. To "die at the right time"
was not a value first invented by Nietzsche's Zarathustra. Jacob Grimm, in
his  German Legal Antiquities,  lists numerous examples of lethal
acts against the aged in pre-Christian Germany. Suicide, self-sacrifice in
battle, abandonment, and outright execution are among the solutions
applied by our European forebears to those who lived too long. 
 Sources: Nietzsche,  Thus Spoke Zarathustra,  pt. 1, ch.
21. Grimm,  Deutsche Rechtsaltertümer,  vol. 1, pp.
669-675. 
 On the other hand, folklore not only contains survivals of these 
primitive lethal acts
against the aged, but it also celebrates old people's wisdom and calls for
their continuing care. This ambiguity reflects a fragility in the
relationship between the generations that his been with humankind
throughout all of recorded history. Hanns Bächthold-Stäubli
explains this apparent cultural contradiction by giving a double
definition of the word "old." In the more primitive stages, he claims,
"old" designated people between 35 and 60 years of age, and these indeed
were given special status and privilege. However, once a person became
senile and could no longer contribute to family and society, he was pushed
from his position of honor, and even executed or abandoned. 
 Source:  Handwörterbuch des deutschen 
Aberglaubens , 
vol.
1, col. 328. 
 In times of war, forced migration, or famine the temptation to do away
the weakest members of a group would be especially great. A saga contains
the following description of a famine in Iceland in the 10th century
(circumstances which, coincidentally, led to the Norsemen's colonization
of Greenland and their discovery of America, some 500 years before
Columbus): "Men ate ravens and foxes, and many loathsome thinges were
eaten which should not be eaten, and some men had the old and helpless
killed and thrown over the cliffs." 
 Source: As quoted in Jacqueline Simpson,  Everyday Life in
the Viking Age  (New York: Dorset Press, 1987), p.
40. 
 One of the Grimms'  German Legends  (no. 454) tells how, in the
eighth century, a community fleeing from enemy soldiers buried one of
their old women alive to keep her from being taken captive. They carried
out the fateful task while chanting "Creep under, creep under, the world
is too sorrowful for you; you can no longer follow the commotion." In
their commentary to this legend, the Grimms document two additional
instances of ritualistic killing of the aged. In each of the Grimms' three
examples the geronticide was accompanied by a ritualistic chant, which
suggests that these had, to at least some extent, not only legitimized,
but also formalized the killing of their aged. 
 Karl Haupt, writing in the mid nineteenth century, gives a particularly
dramatic (and relatively recent) example of socially sanctioned European
geronticide in Lausitz, a region in today's Southeast Germany. Himself a
German, Haupt is quick to emphasize that this shameful custom was
practiced by Slavic groups living in this region. His account follows: 
 During heathen times the Sorbian Wends of Lausitz practiced
the shameful and gruesome custom of ridding themselves of their old people
who were no longer able to contribute. When , a father would be struck
dead by his own son A son would strike his own father dead when he became
old and incompetent, or he would throw him into water, or he would push
him over a high cliff. Indeed, there are many examples of this, even after
the advent of Christianity. For example: 
 Herr Levin von Schulenburg, a high official in Altmark, was
traveling among the Wends in about 1580 when he saw an old man being led
away by several people. "Where are you going with the old man?" he asked,
and received the answer, "To God!" They were going to sacrifice him to
God, because he was no longer able to earn his own sustenance. When the
official grasped what was happening, he forced them to turn the old man
over to him. He took him home with him and hired him as a gatekeeper, a
position that he held for twenty additional years. 
 Source: Karl Haupt,  Sagenbuch der Lausitz , Zweiter
Theil (Leipzig: Verlag von Wilhelm Engelmann, 1863), p.
9. 
 As a final survival of this gruesome custom, Haupt cites a Wendish 
ritualistic folk song, apparently still being sung as late as the mid 
nineteenth century: 
 Old man, go to sleep! 
Young man, find a wife! 
Throw stones at the old man, 
And apples at the young ones; 
Old man, go to sleep! 
Young man, find a wife! 
 Source: Haupt, p. 10. Karl Haupt's source is Leopold Haupt and
J. E. Schmaler,  Volkslieder der Wenden in der Ober- und
Niederlausitz  (Grimma, 1841), vol. 2, p. 94. The German text of the
song follows: 
 Schlaf, Alter, ein! 
Junger du mußt frei'n! 
Nach dem Alten mit den Steinen, 
Nach den Jungen mit den Äpfeln; 
Schlaf, Alter ein! 
Junger du mußt frei'n! 
 
 
 Abandonment of the sick or the aged by primitive peoples, especially
those with a nomadic culture, is well documented and reflects the
harshness of life endured by many of our forebears. An Eskimo story, for
example, can begin, in a matter-of-fact tone: "One Winter there was an old
woman who was left behind ... with only a few insects to eat." Similarly,
a Chiricahua Indian myth tells how tribal members concluded that a certain
old woman was "good for nothing" and hence decided to abandon her. Alone,
she wept to the Mountain Spirits, and they performed a ceremony that cured
her of her ailments. She returned to her people and shared with them the
healing ceremony, which became a part of their culture. The myth thus
explains the origin of a certain healing ritual, but it does not directly
criticize the practice of abandoning an old, infirm tribal member to
certain death. 
 Sources: Lawrence Millman,  A Kayak Full of Ghosts: Eskimo
Tales  (Santa Barbara: Capra Press, 1987), p. 184. Margot Astrov,
 American Indian Prose and Poetry  (New York: Capricorn), pp.
211-212. See also Harry Hoijer,  Chiricahua and Mescalero Apache Texts,
 The University of Chicago Publications in Anthropology, Linguistic
Series. (Chicago, 1938), p. 33.