The Book of Sindibâd 
Lord, I have heard that (there was) a man who was jealous of his wife, and he bought a parrot and put it into a cage. And he placed it in his house, and he ordered it to tell him all that his wife should do, and never to conceal anything thereof from him; and afterwards he went away on business of his own.   
And a friend of hers entered the house where she was. The parrot saw all that they did; and when the good man came home, he sat down, unseen by his wife, and ordered the parrot to be brought, and asked him all that he had seen, and the parrot told him all that he had seen the woman do with her friend. And the good man was very much incensed against his wife, and went no longer into the place where she was (viz., the harem). And the wife believed truly that the maid had told about her.    
And then she called her and said: "Thou didst tell my husband all that I did."    
And the girl swore that she had not told it, but knew that the parrot had told it.   
And she [the wife] took it down and began to throw water upon it, just as if it were rain. And she took a mirror in her hand and held it over the cage, and in the other hand [she held] a candle, and she held that over [also]. And the parrot thought that it was lightning. And the wife began to move a grindstone, and the parrot thought that it was thunder. And she occupied herself all night doing this until morning.    
And after it was morning the husband came and asked the parrot: "Hast thou seen anything this night?"    
And the parrot said: "I could see nothing for the great rain and the thunder and lightning that there were this night."    
And the man said: "Hath what thou hast told me of my wife as much truth as this? There is nothing more lying than thou, and I will order thee to be killed."    
And he sent for his wife and pardoned her, and they made peace.   
And I, Lord, have told thee this example only that thou mayst know the deceit of women; that their arts are very strong, and are many, so that they have no end.