The Grimms' sentimental, legend-like tale "The Burial Shirt" reflects
the belief that excessive mourning would prevent a deceased person from
resting in peace: 
 A mother had a little boy of seven years who was so attractive
and good-natured that no one could look at him without liking him, and he
was dearer to her than anything else in the world. Now it happened that he
suddenly became ill, and God called him home. The mother could find no
solace, and she cried day and night. However, soon after his burial, the
child began to appear every night at those places where he had sat and
played while still alive. When the mother cried, he cried as well, but
when morning came he had disappeared. The mother did not cease crying, and
one night he appeared with the white shirt in which he had been laid into
his coffin, and with the little wreath on his head, he sat down on the bed
at her feet and said, "Oh, mother, please stop crying, or I will not be
able to fall asleep in my coffin, because my burial shirt will not dry out
from your tears that keep falling on it." This startled the mother, and
she stopped crying. The next night the child came once again. He had a
little light in his hand and said, "See, my shirt is almost dry, and I
will be able to rest in my grave." Then the mother surrendered her grief
to God and bore it with patience and peace, and the child did not come
again, but slept in he little bed beneath the earth. 
 Source:  The Burial 
Shirt  (Grimm, no.
109). 
 That this belief was not limited to unnamed characters in admittedly
fictional tales is evidenced by the following account from northern
England: 
 An old woman still living (1854) in Piersebridge, who mourned
with inordinate grief for a length of time the loss of a favorite
daughter, asserts that she was visited by the spirit of her departed
child, and earnestly exhorted not to disturb her peaceful repose by
unnecessary lamentations and repinings at the will of God; and from that
time she never grieved more. Events of this kind were common a century
ago. 
 Source:  The Denham Tracts , vol. 2, pp.
58-59.
 
For more tales of this type see  The 
Death of a Child: Folktales about Excessive Mourning .