There was once a husband and wife who had but one child, a daughter.
Now it happened that the wife fell ill and was at the point of death.
Before dying she called her husband, and said to him, weeping, "I am
dying; you are still young; if you ever wish to marry again, be mindful to
choose a wife whom my wedding ring fits; and if you cannot find a lady
whom it fits well, do not marry."
 Her husband promised that he would do so. When she was dead he took off
her wedding ring and kept it until he desired to marry again. Then he
sought for some one to please him. He went from one to another, but the
ring fitted no one. He tried so many but in vain. One day he thought of
calling his daughter, and trying the ring on her to see whether it fitted
her. The daughter said, "It is useless, dear father; you cannot marry me,
because you are my father."
 He did not heed her, put the ring on her finger, and saw that it fitted
her well, and wanted to marry his daughter  nolens volens .  She did
not oppose him, but consented. The day of the wedding, he asked her what
she wanted. She said that she wished four silk dresses, the most beautiful
that could be seen. He, who was a gentleman, gratified her wish and took
her the four dresses, one handsomer than the other, and all the handsomest
that had ever been seen.
 "Now, what else do you want?" said he.
 "I want another dress, made of wood, so that I can conceal myself in
it." And at once he had this wooden dress made. She was well pleased. She
waited until one day her husband was out of sight, put on the wooden
dress, and under it the four silk dresses, and went away to a certain
river not far off, and threw herself in it. Instead of sinking and
drowning, she floated, for the wooden dress kept her up.
 The water carried her a long way, when she saw on the bank a gentleman,
and began to cry, "Who wants the fair Maria Wood?"
 That gentleman who saw her on the water, and whom she addressed, called
her and she came to the bank and saluted him.
 "How is it that you are thus dressed in wood, and come floating on the
water without drowning?"
 She told him that she was a poor girl who had only that dress of wood,
and that she wanted to go out to service.
 "What can you do?"
 "I can do all that is needed in a house, and if you would only take me
for a servant you would be satisfied."
 He took her to his house, where his mother was, and told her all that
had happened, saying, "If you, dear mother, will take her as a servant, we
can try her." In short, she took her and was pleased with this woman
dressed in wood.
 It happened that there were balls at that place which the best ladies
and gentlemen attended. The gentleman who had the servant dressed in wood
prepared to go to the ball, and after he had departed, the servant said to
his mother, "Do me this kindness, mistress: let me go to the ball too, for
I have never seen any dancing."
 "What, you wish to go to the ball so badly dressed that they would
drive you away as soon as they saw you!" The servant was silent and when
the mistress was in bed, dressed herself in one of her silk dresses and
became the most beautiful woman that was ever seen. She went to the ball,
and it seemed as if the sun had entered the room; all were dazzled. She
sat down near her master, who asked her to dance, and would dance with no
one but her. She pleased him so much that he fell in love with her. He
asked her who she was and where she came from. She replied that she came
from a distance, but told him nothing more.
 At a certain hour, without anyone perceiving it, she went out and
disappeared. She returned home and put on her wooden dress again. In the
morning the master returned from the ball, and said to his mother, "Oh! if
you had only seen what a beautiful lady there was at the ball! She
appeared like the sun, she was so beautiful and well dressed. She sat down
near me, and would not dance with anyone but me."
 His mother then said, "Did you not ask her who she was and where she
came from?"
 "She would only tell me that she came from a distance; but I thought I
should die; I wish to go again this evening." The servant heard all this
dialogue, but kept silent, pretending that the matter did not concern her.
 In the evening he prepared himself again for the ball, and the servant
said to him, "Master, yesterday evening I asked your mamma to let me, too,
go to the ball, for I have never seen dancing, but she would not; will you
have the kindness to let me go this evening?"
 "Be still, you ugly creature, the ball is no place for you!"
 "Do me this favor," she said, weeping, "I will stand out of doors, or
under a bench, or in a corner so no one shall see me; but let me go!"
 He grew angry then, and took a stick and began to beat the poor
servant. She wept and remained silent.
 After he had gone, she waited until his mother was in bed, and put on a
dress finer than the first, and so rich as to astonish, and away to the
ball! When she arrived all began to gaze at her, for they had never seen
anything more beautiful. All the handsomest young men surrounded her and
asked her to dance; but she would have nothing to do with anyone but her
master. He again asked her who she was, and she said she would tell him
later.
 They danced and danced, and all at once she disappeared. Her master ran
here and there, asked one and another, but no one could tell him where she
had gone. He returned home and told his mother all that had passed. She
said to him, "Do you know what you must do? Take this diamond ring, and
when she dances with you give it to her; and if she takes it, it is a sign
that she loves you." She gave him the ring. The servant listened, saw
everything, and was silent.
 In the evening the master prepared for the ball and the servant again
asked him to take her, and again he beat her. He went to the ball, and
after midnight, as before, the beautiful lady returned more beautiful than
before, and as usual would dance only with her master. At the right moment
he took out the diamond ring, and asked her if she would accept it. She
took it and thanked him, and he was happy and satisfied. Afterward he
asked her again who she was and where from. She said that she was of that
country,
 That when they speak of going to a ball 
They are beaten on the head 
 and said no more. At the usual hour she stopped dancing and departed.
He ran after her, but she went like the wind, and reached home without his
finding out where she went. But he ran so in all directions, and was in
such suffering, that when he reached home he was obliged to go to bed more
dead than alive. Then he fell ill and grew worse every day, so that all
said he would die. He did nothing but ask his mother and everyone if they
knew anything of that lady, and that he would die if he did not see her.
The servant heard everything; and one day, when he was very ill, what did
she think of? She waited until her mistress's eye was turned, and dropped
the diamond ring in the broth her master was to eat. No one saw her, and
his mother took him the broth. He began to eat it, when he felt something
hard, saw something shine, and took it out. You can imagine how he looked
at it and recognized the diamond ring! They thought he would go mad. He
asked his mother if that was the ring and she swore that it was, and all
happy, she said that now he would see her again.
 Meanwhile the servant went to her room, took off her wooden dress, and
put on one all of silk, so that she appeared a beauty, and went to the
room of the sick man. His mother saw her and began to cry, "Here she is;
here she is!" She went in and saluted him, smiling, and he was so beside
himself that he became well at once. He asked her to tell him her story:
who she was, where she came from, how she came, and how she knew that he
was ill.
 She replied, "I am the woman dressed in wood who was your servant. It
is not true that I was a poor girl, but I had that dress to conceal myself
in, for underneath it I was the same that I am now. I am a lady; and
although you treated me so badly when I asked to go to the ball, I saw
that you loved me, and now I have come to save you from death." You can
believe that they stayed to hear her story. They were married and have
always been happy and still are.