Since the year 1500 a small castle on a steep incline across the Danube River from the town of Aschach has been known by the name  Fauststöckl  or  Faustschlössl.  It is said that the castle was built in one night by the devil himself at the behest of Dr. Faustus, the famous alchemist and necromancer. As everyone knows, Dr. Faustus had made a pact with the devil: In return for granting Faust's every wish, the devil -- after a period of twenty-four years -- would gain possession of his soul. 
Faust had commanded the building of the castle not only to provide himself with a magnificent residence, but also in an attempt to give the devil a task that he would be unable to fulfill, thus voiding the pact that ultimately would end with Faust's damnation. However, the devil proved equal to this task. 
In another attempt to frustrate the devil, Faust requested a bowling alley in the middle of the Danube River. This too was accomplished, and Faust miraculously was able to play at bowls on the surface of the water. 
Whenever Faust wanted to cross over to the town of Aschach, he had the devil build a bridge across the river. The bridge was constructed immediately before Faust's galloping horses, and dismantled behind him as he passed over. Similarly, as reportedly also occurred elsewhere in Germany, in only a few minutes he had a paved road built for himself as far as Neuhaus, and then torn up when no longer needed.  
These miracles not only satisfied Faust's great ego; they were also intended to give the devil a task that he would not be able to fulfill. But in this Faust failed. On midnight at the end of the twenty-fourth year a great commotion was heard from within the castle. The devil was seen flying through the air with Faust, and, reaching the height of the nearby mountains, he ripped him to pieces. Since then neither has been seen near the Faustschlössl.  
A hole remained where the two left the castle, and to this day it cannot be plastered over.  
After a succession of noble occupants, in 1966 the Faustschlössl was remodeled as a hotel and restaurant. The hotel management claims that the famous "Devil's Hole" still cannot be plastered over, and they offer to show it to their guests.  
 

On September 18, 2008, I found myself in Aschach waiting for a bus to take me to the city of Linz. I asked the bus driver about the legend of Faust and the devil at the castle across the river.  
"It's true," he assured me. "My father is a plasterer, and he has tried to repair that hole, but the plaster keeps falling out."