Once upon a time there was a sorcerer who was a thief. He disguised
himself as a poor man and went begging from house to house. A girl came to
the door and brought him a piece of bread. He touched her, and she was
forced to jump into his pack basket. Then he carried her to his house
where everything was splendid, and he gave her everything that she
wanted. 
 One day he said, "I have to take care of something away from home. I
will be away for a while. Here is an egg. Take good care of it. Carry it
with you at all times. And here is a key, but at the risk of your life, do
not go into the room that it opens. But as soon as he had gone, she
unlocked the door and went into the room. In the middle there was a large
basin. In it there were dead and dismembered people. She was so terrified
that she dropped the egg, which she was holding in her hand, into the
basin. She quickly took it out again and wiped off the blood, but it
reappeared in an instant. She could not get the egg clean, no matter how
much she wiped and scrubbed. 
 When the man returned, he asked for the egg and the key. He looked at
them and knew that she had been in the blood chamber. "You did not heed my
words," he said angrily, "and now you are going into the chamber against
your will." With that he seized her, led her into the room, cut her up in
pieces, and threw her into the basin with the others. 
 Sometime later the man went begging again. He captured the second
daughter from the house, and the same thing happened to her as to the
first one. She too opened the forbidden door, dropped the egg into the
blood, and was cut to pieces and thrown into the basin. 
 Then the sorcerer wanted to have the third daughter. He captured her in
his pack basket, carried her home, and at his departure gave her the egg
and the key. However, the third sister was clever and sly. First of all,
she put the egg in a safe place, and then she went into the secret
chamber. When she saw her sisters in the basin, she found all of their
parts and put each one back in its right place: head, body, arm, and leg.
The parts started to move, and then they joined together, and the two
sister came back to life. She took them both out of the room and hid
them. 
 When the man returned and found that the egg was free of blood, he
asked her to become his bride. She said yes, but told him that first he
would have to carry a basket filled with gold on his back to her parents,
and that meanwhile she would be getting ready for the wedding. Then she
told her sisters to get help from home. She put them into the basket and
covered them over with gold. Then she said to the man, "Carry this away.
And don't you dare stop to rest. If you do, I'll be able to see through my
window." He lifted the basket onto his back and started off, but it was so
heavy that the weight nearly killed him. He wanted to rest a little, but
one of the girls inside the basket called out, "I can see through my
window that you are resting. Walk on at once!" He thought it was his bride
calling out, so he got up and walked on. Every time he wanted to rest, he
heard the call, and had to continue on. 
 Meanwhile, back at his house, his bride dressed up a skull and placed
it in the attic window. Then she invited all the sorcerer's friends to the
wedding. Then she dipped herself in a barrel of honey, cut open the bed,
and rolled in the feathers so that no one would be able to recognize her.
In this strange disguise, she left the house and started down the path.
Soon she met some of the guests, who said, "You, Fitcher's bird, where are
you coming from?" 
 "I'm coming from Fitcher's house." 
 "And what is his young bride doing?" 
 "She's cleaning the house from bottom to top. Right now she is looking
out of the attic window." 
 Then she also met the bridegroom, who was returning home. 
 "You, Fitcher's bird, where are you coming from?" 
 "I'm coming from Fitcher's house." 
 "And what is my young bride doing?" 
 "She's cleaning the house from bottom to top. Right now she is looking
out of the attic window." 
 The bridegroom looked up, and saw the disguised skull. Thinking it was
his bride, he waved to it. But after he arrived home, and all his friends
were there as well, the help came that the sisters had sent. They closed
up the house and set it afire, and because no one could get out, they all
perished in the flames.