Once upon a time there was a poor peasant woman. She was a widow and
had but one son. His name was Hans, and he was very stupid. 
 It was summertime, and his mother gave him a large pot of honey,
saying, "I am sending you to town to sell this, but don't let people say
too much to you." She was afraid that people would bargain too much with
him. 
 Arriving in town, he cried out, "Buy my honey!" 
 The people said, "How much does it cost?" 
 He said, "You are saying too much to me." 
 "Can't we at least ask how much it costs?" 
 "No," he said, "you have already said too much," and he packed up and
left town. 
 Out in the country the flies and wasps swarmed around him, wanting his
honey. 
 "Buy my honey!" he said. They were not able to say anything to him, so
he poured his honey out on the ground. "You'll have to pay me in a week,"
he said. 
 Then he went home and told his mother, "I sold the honey and will get
the money in a week." 
 A week later he again set off for town. Because of the money for the
honey he took along a stout cudgel. He arrived at the spot, and there were
still bees and flies there licking up the little honey that was left. 
 He said, "I want my money now," but they gave him nothing. 
 "I'll make short work of this," he said. "I am reporting you to the
judge." 
 He went to the judge, who asked, "Just what do you want?" 
 "The flies and wasps bought honey from me," he said, "and now they
refuse to pay." 
 The judge began to laugh, seeing that he was dealing with a real
simpleton. "All I can tell you, is that whenever you see a fly you should
strike it dead," he answered. 
 Just then a fly flew onto the judge's nose, and Hans hit the fly on his
nose. 
 "Ouch, Jeez, my nose!" cried the judge. 
 Then Hans said, "I was hitting at the fly, not at your nose." 
 Then the judge thought, "He could kill someone if he sees a fly sitting
on them. And who allowed it to happen? The judge, that's what people will
say." So he asked, "How much did your honey cost?" 
 "Three hundred florins," said Hans. 
 So the judge wrote him a slip and sent him with it to the cashier,
and when he received his money, he returned home.