Fortunio, a servant, endeavoring to crush a fly, kills his master, and 
saves himself from the gallows by a pleasantry. 
 
  
There lived in the city of Ferrara a rich grocer of good descent, who had 
in his service Fortunio, a fat good-tempered fellow of very slender wit. 
Now in the great heats the grocer was wont to lie down to sleep in the 
middle of the day, and at such times it was Fortunio's part to keep off 
the flies with a fan, lest they should disturb his master. One day it 
chanced that, amongst the others, was a very greedy meddlesome horsefly, 
which took no heed of Fortunio's fanning, nor of his strokes, but alighted 
constantly on the grocer's bald pate and stung him grievously. And though 
the fly was chased away three or four times, it always came back to give 
fresh trouble.   
At last the servant, incensed at the boldness and persistency of the fly, 
rashly made trial to kill it when it was about to settle again on his 
master's temple and suck his blood. Simple fool that he was, he caught up 
a weighty bronze pestle, and, striking at the fly with all his might with 
the intent to kill it, he made an end of the grocer instead.   
As soon as Fortunio saw that he had slain his master and thereby made 
himself liable to death by the law, he took counsel with himself how he 
might best save his neck, and first resolved to seek safety in flight, but 
he afterwards fixed upon another scheme, which was to bury the corpse 
secretly. Therefore, having wrapped up the dead body of his master in a 
sack and carried it into a garden adjacent to the shop, he buried it 
there. This done he went to the sheepfold, and, having chosen a big old 
ram, he took it and threw it down the well.   
As the master did not appear at his usual hour in the evening the wife's 
suspicion fell upon Fortunio, and she questioned him as to her husband's 
whereabouts, but the fellow declared stoutly that he knew nothing of it. 
Then the good wife, overcome with grief, began to weep and to call for her 
husband aloud, but she called in vain. She went to her kinsfolk and told 
them her grief; whereupon they sought the governor of the city, and laid 
the crime to Fortunio's charge, demanding that he should be imprisoned and 
put to the question, in order to make him tell what had become of his 
master.   
The governor, having put the servant in hold and tied him to the rope, 
gave him the strappado as prescribed by law, on account of the charges 
against him. Handling of this sort was not to his taste, and he forthwith 
promised to tell all he knew, if they would let him down.   
So they brought him before the judge, and this was the cunning tale he had 
prepared for their befooling: "Yesterday, O judge! when I was asleep near 
the well, I was awakened by a great noise, as of some mighty rock being 
hurled down into the water below. In my amazement I ran to the well and 
looked into it, but the water was quite clear and I could see nothing 
amiss; so I turned to go back to the house, when the same noise again met 
my ears. I am now quite sure in my mind that my master, when trying to 
draw some water up out of the well, fell down into it. Now, that the truth 
of the matter may be laid bare, I make petition that all now present may 
go to the spot; then I will descend into the well and disclose what I may 
find therein."   
The judge was favorable to Fortunio's prayer, holding that experiment is 
the surest proof, and that no evidence can equal what is brought before 
one's eyes, and betook himself to the well, bidding the whole assembly 
follow. There went not only the worshipful persons who were about the 
judge, but also a vast crowd of the common people, who were curious to 
learn what might be the issue of the affair.   
Fortunio, obeying the commandment of the judge, went straightway down the 
well, and, when he had reached the bottom, made believe to be searching 
for his master's body in the water; but what he found was the carcass of 
the old ram which he himself had lately cast in.   
Feigning to be vastly amazed at this, the cunning fellow bawled up from 
the bottom of the well, "O my mistress! Tell me whether your husband, my 
poor master, had horns or not; for I have alighted on somebody down here 
who has got an enormous pair, both long and large. Is it possible that he 
can be your husband?"   
And when the good wife heard Fortunio's question she was so much overcome 
with shame that she could not find a word to say for herself. Meanwhile 
the bystanders waited, open-mouthed with curiosity, to set eyes on this 
corpse with horns, and to see whether it really was the body of the 
missing grocer or not; and when they saw hauled up Fortunio's old ram, 
they all clapped their hands, and were shaken by loud laughter.   
The judge, when he saw the issue of Fortunio's search, deemed that the 
foolish fellow was acting in good faith, and that he verily believed what 
he brought out of the well to be the remains of his master. On this 
account the judge let him go free, as innocent, but the grocer was never 
seen more, and the good wife, to her dying day, bore the shame anent the 
horns which Fortunio's cunning trick had cast upon her.