Very long ago there were two men living together, and making maple sugar. 
They made one  mokok  ("bark box") of sugar, and then they cached it 
away, burying it, and said to each other, "We will let it remain here 
until we are very hungry."   
The younger man was a Fox, and he was a good hunter. Every time he went 
out, he brought home chickens or small wild game. The other man was a 
greedy Wolf, and he never killed anything, or brought anything home: so 
Fox thought he would play a trick on his chum for being lazy.   
"You ought to go over to that house," said Fox to Wolf. "Maybe they will 
give you something to eat. When I went over there, they gave me a 
chicken."   
So Wolf went over as he was told. When he got to the house, he did not 
hide himself, but went in open sight. The owner of the house saw the Wolf 
coming up, so he set his dogs on him to drive him away; and Wolf escaped 
only by running into the river.   
"So it is this one that takes off our chickens!" said the man.   
When Wolf arrived at his home, he told his younger brother, Fox, "Why, I 
hardly escaped from that man!"   
"Why!" said Fox to him. "They did not recognize you; that's why." But Wolf 
made no answer.   
While they were in the house together, Fox went outside, and cried, 
" He! " to deceive Wolf.   
"What's the matter with you?" asked Wolf.   
"Oh! they have come after me to give a name to a child."   
"Then you'd better go over. Maybe they will give you something to eat." 
  
Instead of going, however, Fox went to their cache of maple sugar, and ate 
some of it. When he returned, Wolf asked him, "What did you name the 
baby?"   
" Mokimon ," replied Fox; and this word means to "reveal" or "dig 
out" something you have hidden.   
At another time, while they were sitting together, Fox said, " He! " 
and "Oh, yes!"   
"What's that?" inquired Wolf.   
"Oh! I am called to give a name to a newborn baby."   
"Well, then, go. Maybe they will give you something to eat."   
So Fox went and returned. "What's the name of the child?" asked Wolf.   
This time, Fox answered, " Wapiton "; and this word means "to 
commence to eat."   
At another time, Fox cried out, " He! " and "All right!" as though 
some one had called to him, "I'll come."   
"What's that?" asked Wolf.   
"They want me to go over and name their child."   
"Well, then, go," says Wolf. "You always get something to eat every time 
they want you."   
So Fox went, and soon returned. Wolf asked him again, "What name did you 
give it?"   
" Hapata kiton ," answered Fox; that is to say, "half eaten."   
Then another time Fox cried " He! " as if in answer to some one 
speaking to him, and then, as though some one called from the distance, 
" Hau! "   
Wolf, as he did not quite hear, asked Fox what the matter was. "Oh, 
nothing!" replied Fox, "only they want me to come over and name their 
child."   
"Well, then, you'd better go. Maybe you'll get a chance to eat; maybe 
you'll fetch me something too."   
So Fox started out, and soon returned home.   
"Well, what name did you give this time?" asked Wolf.   
" Noskwaton ," said Fox; and this means "all licked up."   
Then Wolf caught on. "Maybe you are eating our stored maple sugar!" he 
cried. But Fox sat still and laughed at him.   
Then Wolf went over and looked at their cache. Sure enough, he found the 
empty box with its contents all gone, and pretty well licked up.   
Meantime Fox skipped out, and soon found a large tree by the river, 
leaning out over the water. He climbed into its branches and hid there. 
Presently the angry Wolf returned home, and, not finding Fox, tracked him 
to the tree. Wolf climbed part way to Fox without seeing him, as he was on 
the branches. Then Wolf was afraid, and while he was hesitating, he 
happened to look at the water, and there he saw the reflection of Fox 
laughing at him on the surface. The Wolf, in a fury, plunged into the 
bottom of the stream, but of course failed to catch Fox. He tried four 
times, and after the fourth attempt he was tired, and quit jumping in for 
a while. While he was resting, he looked up and saw Fox laughing at him. 
  
Then Wolf said to Fox, "Let's go home and make up"; for he thought in his 
heart that anyway Fox was feeding him all the time.   
By and by it became winter. Fox frequently went out, and returned with 
abundance of fish. "How do you manage to get so many?" asked Wolf.   
"You'd better go out and try for yourself," said Fox. "The way I do, when 
I am fishing, is to cut a hole in the ice. I put my tail in, instead of a 
line, and I remain there until I feel bites. I move ahead a little to let 
the fish string on my tail; but I stay a long time, until I get a great 
many fish on my tail. When it feels pretty heavy, I jerk it out, and catch 
all I want."   
Fox was in hopes that he could get Wolf frozen to death in the ice, and so 
avoid the necessity of feeding him any longer. So he took Wolf out, and 
cut five holes in the ice, -- one for his tail, and one for each paw, -- 
telling him he could catch more fish that way. Wolf staid there to fish 
all night. Every once in a while he would move his feet or tail a little, 
and they felt so heavy, he was sure he was getting a tremendous load; and 
he staid a little longer. In the mean time he was freezing fast in the 
ice. When he found out the predicament he was in, he jerked backwards and 
forwards again and again, until all the hair wore off his tail, and there 
he was. He thought he had let too many fish on his tail and feet to haul 
them out, and he worked hard to free himself. At last he wore his tail out 
at the surface of the ice, and pulled off his claws and the bottoms of his 
feet. Fox told him he had caught too many fish, and that they had bitten 
his tail and feet; and Wolf believed it.   
Another time, Fox found a wasp's nest in a tree: so he went home and told 
Wolf that there was honey in it, and persuaded him to try and jump up and 
get it, on the plea that Wolf could jump higher than he could. As soon as 
Wolf set out to try, Fox ran away, and Wolf was nearly stung to death. Fox 
fled over a wagon-road to conceal his tracks, and as he travelled, he met 
a negro with a team, hauling a load of bread. Fox, cunning as he was, lay 
down on the side of the road and pretended that he was dead. The negro saw 
him lying there, and picked him up and put him in his wagon behind his 
load. Fox very presently came to, and, waiting for his chance, he would 
throw off a loaf of bread every now and then, till he had gotten rid of a 
good many. Then he jumped off, and carried the loaves to a secret place, 
where he built him a shelter, and prepared to live for a time.   
In the meantime, Wolf came along, half starved, and crippled from his 
meddling with a live wasp's nest and from his fishing experience. Fox fed 
him on his arrival, and said, "You ought to do the way I did. It's easy to 
get bread. I got mine by playing dead on the road. Tomorrow the negro will 
pass by with another load; and you can watch for him and do as I did, and 
steal his bread."   
Next morning, Wolf started out to watch the road, and pretty soon he saw 
the negro coming with a big load of bread: so he lay down beside the road, 
where the darky could see him, and played dead. The darky did see him, 
sure enough; and he stopped his team, and got off and got a big stick, and 
knocked Wolf over the head, and killed him dead for sure.   
"I will not get fooled this time!" he said, "for yesterday I lost too many 
loaves of bread for putting a dead Fox in my wagon without examining him." 
  
So he did take the Wolf home dead. That ended him, and since then Fox has 
eaten alone.