Tell a Secret    
 
   
Federigo da Pozzuolo, a man learned in the language of animals, is 
earnestly pressed by his wife to tell her a certain secret, but in lieu of 
this be beats her in strange fashion.
 
  
It is the duty of all wise and prudent men to hold their wives in due fear 
and subjection, and on no account to be induced by them to wear their 
breeches as head gear. If indeed they should be led to follow other 
courses than these, they will of a surety have good cause to repent in the 
end.   
It happened one day that Federigo da Pozzuolo, a young man of great parts 
and prudence, was riding towards Naples on a mare of his which was in 
foal, carrying behind him on the crupper his wife, who was also pregnant. 
Likewise there was a young colt which followed the mare its mother, and, 
having been left some distance behind on the road, it began to neigh, and 
to cry out in its own language, "Mother, mother, go slowly, I pray you; 
because I, being very young and tender, and only just a year old, am not 
able in my pace to follow in your footsteps."   
Hearing this the mare pricked up her ears, and, sniffing the air with her 
nostrils, began also to neigh loudly, and said in answer to her colt, "I 
have to carry my mistress, who is with child, and in addition to this I 
bear a young brother of yours in my womb; while you, who are young and 
brisk, carry no burden of any sort strapped on your back, and yet you 
declare that you cannot travel. Come on, if you wish to come; but if not, 
go and do whatever pleases you."   
The young man, when he understood the meaning of these words (for be it 
known he was well skilled in the utterances of birds and of all the 
animals that live on earth), smiled somewhat; whereupon his wife, who was 
greatly filled with wonder thereanent, questioned him as to the reason why 
he smiled.   
To this her husband made answer that he had laughed spontaneously; but 
that, if in any event he should be led to tell her the cause of his 
laughter, she might take it for certain that the Fates would without more 
ado cut the thread of his life, and that he would die on the spot.   
But the importunate woman was not satisfied with this, and replied that 
she wanted, at all hazard, to know the reason why he had thus laughed; 
adding that if he would not tell her she would lay hold of him by the 
weazand.   
Then the husband, finding himself thus placed in a position of difficulty 
and danger, answered her, speaking thus, "When we shall have returned to 
Pozzuolo you shall set in order all my affairs, and make all the necessary 
provisions both for my body and my soul after death. Then I will make 
known to you all you want to learn."   
As soon as her husband had given her this promise the wicked and malicious 
woman was silent, and when they were returned to Pozzuolo she quickly 
recalled to mind the promise which had been made to her, and forthwith 
besought her husband to be as good as his word.   
Whereupon Federigo replied by charging her to go at once and fetch the 
priest, forasmuch as, seeing that he must needs die on account of this 
matter, he was anxious first to confess himself, and to recommend himself 
to his Maker. As soon as she should have done this, he would tell her all. 
Thereupon the wife, who was determined to see her husband lying dead 
rather than give up aught of her pestilent wishes, went forthwith to 
summon the confessor.   
At this moment, while Federigo was lying in his bed, overcome with grief, 
he heard his dog address certain words to his cock, who was crowing aloud, 
"Are you not ashamed of yourself, wretch and ribald that you are, to crow 
thus? Our good master is lying very near his last breath, and you, who 
ought to be sorrowful and full of melancholy, keep on crowing as if you 
rejoiced thereat."   
To these words the cock promptly made answer, "And supposing that our 
master should die, what have I to do with that? Am I, indeed, to be 
charged with causing his death? He wishes to die of his own accord. Do you 
not know what is written in the first book of the  Politics  [by 
Aristotle], 'The wife and the servant stand on the same footing.' Seeing, 
therefore, that the husband is the head of the wife, it is her bounden 
duty to regard the usages and customs of her husband as the laws of her 
life. I, forsooth, have a hundred wives, and, through the workings of 
fear, I make them all most obedient to my commandments, castigating now 
one and now another, and giving pecks wherever I may think they are 
deserved. And this master 
of ours has only a single wife, yet he knows naught how to manage her, and 
to make her obedient to his commands. Let him die forthwith. Do you not 
believe that our mistress will soon find for herself another husband? So 
let it be with him, seeing that he is a man of such little account, and 
one disposed to give way to the foolish and unbridled will of his wife." 
  
The young man, when he had comprehended and well considered in his mind 
the words he had just listened to, at once altered his purpose, and felt 
deeply grateful to the cock for what he had said. The wife, after she had 
come back from seeking the priest, was still pertinacious to learn the 
cause of her husband's laughter; wherefore he, having seized her by the 
hair, began to beat her, and gave her so many and lusty blows that he 
nearly left her for dead.   
This fable did not vastly please those of the listeners who were ladies, 
especially when they heard tell of the sound basting which Federigo gave 
his wife. Nevertheless, they grieved amain when they heard how she would 
fain have been the cause of her husband's death.