1. 
In the vicinity of Tübingen, Heilbronn, and elsewhere they say to misbehaving children: "Just wait, Hairy Martin will come with his sack and carry you away into the woods."  Or: "The chimney sweep will stuff you into his sack and throw you into the water."  
In Pfullingen and elsewhere instead of "Hairy Martin" they say "Hairy Michael." However, most often they fighten children with "Shame Klaus." In Tübingen they also say "Santa Klaus," a corruption of "Saint Nicholas," who goes about on December 6th just as Hairy Martin does on December 24th, punishing naughty children and giving presents to the good ones.  
 
 2. 
In Poltringen and elsewhere they fighten children with the " Butzemäckeler. " (A  Butzemann  is understood to be a scarecrow set up in a field to frighten away birds and wild animals. It is usually crossed sticks with an old hat and a pair of trousers.)  
In the Black Forest children are threatened with the " Butzegraale. " In Fildern and in Mittelstadt they say: "The  Graale  is coming."  Here Hairy Martin is called  Graale , which means "Little Gray Man."  
In the Black Forest they also say: "Just wait, you'll be taken to  Höllehäfele. "  They say the same thing in Derendingen whenever a child curses or cries.  
 
 3. 
In Wurmlingen to frighten children away from water they say: "Someone is under there with a hook, and he'll pull you in." Generally they say: "The Hook Man will grab you." Or: "He will pull you in with his hook."  
In Bühlerthann they say to the children: "There is a cart man in the water, and he'll take you to the bottom in his cart.  
 
 4. 
When there were still wild pigs in Pfullingen, whenever children wanted to go into a grain field they would say: "Don't go there. There's a wild sow there."  
 
 5. 
In the vicinity of Brettn in Baden in the evening they frighten children with the " Nachtape, " an old woman. Around Lahr and elsewhere in the Black Forest it is the " Nachtrab  (night raven), a ghost-like bird who similarly takes children away.  
In Bretten when carnival cakes are being baked, and the children do not want to leave the kitchen, they frighten the children away with the "Carnival Mother," who sticks the children with pins.   
 
 6. 
In the vicinity of Tübingen children who want to go into the town with their parents are told: "At the town gate you would have to bite into an iron chain," and then they remain at home.  
In Pfullingen they say: "I'm going into the Sow Woods.  You cannot come with me."