Proverbial wisdom notwithstanding, old people do not always gain the
respect and the care that they deserve. Where ethics and morality fail,
trickery is justified. In folktales there is no trickier fox than an old
fox. The fox's cousin, faced with destruction, can also be clever. 
 
 Animal fables, one of the oldest and most honored genres of folklore,
have been used for centuries to expose social injustice and to promote
ethical behavior. A younger generation's care for the aged is a topic that
has not gone unnoticed in this genre. The fables often exhibit a cynical
view, suggesting that a younger person's moral sensitivity may not be
sufficient in causing him or her to care for older individuals. A certain
amount of trickery and deception may be required, but -- taking the tales
at
face value -- in this case the ends do indeed justify the means.
Especially
if  you  are the old person whose life is thus preserved. 
 A farmer intended to shoot a faithful dog, now too old to be
of use. But the dog's friend the wolf had a plan. Accordingly, he seized
the master's child; the dog pursued and with a pretended struggle rescued
the child. The grateful farmer now promised to keep the old dog as long as
he lived. 
 
 
Source: Retold from " Old Sultan " (Grimm,
 Tales,  no. 48, type 101). For additional tales of this type (from 
Germany, Bohemia, Russia, and Japan) see  Old Dogs Learn New Tricks .  


 
 
 Another, even better known, story about old animals who make a good
life for themselves through trickery is " The Bremen Town Musicians ":

 
A donkey, a dog, a cat, and a rooster had all grown old and
feared for their lives, so they set out for Bremen, where they hoped to
become town musicians. That night they came to a house in the woods.
Seeing a band of robbers inside, they devised a plan to drive the villains
away. The donkey placed his forefeet on the window ledge, the dog mounted
the donkey, the cat climbed on the dog's back, and the rooster perched on
the cat's head. Then each began to sing. The terrified robbers fled, and
the four musicians stayed there from then on. 
 Source: Type 130, retold from Grimm, no. 27. For numerous
additional variants see Ashliman,  A Guide to Folktales,  p.
28, and  Animals in
Exile , folktales of Aarne-Thompson type 130. 
 Significantly, the aging and threatened animals in this famous tale do
not even seek refuge with their own people and in their own community. The
rural society symbolically reflected in this fable has no safety net for
those too old to further contribute. But there is always the hope greener
grass on the other side of the fence, the pot of gold at the end of the
rainbow, the pie in the sky. The dispossessed farm animals know what the
country has to offer them: poverty and death. They, like multitudes of
their real-life human counterparts, can hope that the city will be kinder
to them. Bremen, residence of bishops, center of trade, and gateway to the
world surely can provide opportunity, even for old people whose only
resources are naive faith and a willingness to sing for their supper. 
 The inventor of this fable wisely did not allow the dispossessed
animals to find their way to the city, where -- by any realistic
standards -- their dreams would have been cruelly shattered. This is not a
cautionary tale, preaching exemplary behavior to the aged. This is a fable
of fantasy escape, and our heroes find a safe haven in a remote corner of
the forest, far from Bremen. 
 Note: The good citizens of Bremen seem to have lost sight of
this detail. One of the city's most photographed attractions is Gerhard
Marcks's statue of the four animal musicians located in the courtyard of
the  Pfarrkirche Unserer Lieben Frauen  in the center of the
city. 
 We are apparently little bothered by the fact that their security comes
at the expense of another marginalized group, the robbers. We assume,
if -- indeed -- we give such ethical details a second thought, that the
robbers, like the witch in the Grimms' " Hansel and Gretel ," the ogre in
Perrault's " Little Thumb ," 
and countless other sinister forest dwellers,
came by their wealth dishonorably, and that it is hence legitimate booty
for our (temporarily) disadvantaged heroes and heroines. 
 
 An old man, thinking himself near death, divided his property
among his sons. But he did not die, and his sons treated their now
impoverished father cruelly. To correct this, he obtained four bags full
of gravel, and pretended they contained money he had received in payment
of an old debt. Hoping for an added inheritance, the sons immediately
became attentive to his every need, making every effort to please him
until the day he died. 
 Source: Retold from "How the Wicked Sons Were Duped" (type
982, Jacobs,  Indian Fairy Tales,  p. 221. 
For additional tales of this type from India, Sri Lanka, Germany, and 
England see  Ungrateful Heirs: 
Folktales of Type 982 .