South of Thorsby Church, among the mountains, lies a shattered rock
called Gloshed's Altar, concerning which there is an old tradition still
living upon the lips of the people, as follows: 
 A long time ago a man from the parish of Säfve went upon a
Hollandish ship, on a whaling cruise. After the vessel had been tossed
about the sea for some time, land was one day sighted, and upon the land
was seen a fire which continued to burn many days. 
 It was determined that some of the ship's crew should go ashore, in the
hope that shelter might be found, and among those who went ashore was our
hero. When the strand was reached they found there an old man sitting by a
fire of logs, endeavoring to warm himself. 
 "Where did you come from?" asked the old man. 
 "From Holland!" answered the sailors. 
 "But where were you born?" to our hero. 
 "In Hisingen, in the parish of Säfve," he answered. 
 "Are you acquainted in Thorsby?" 
 "Yes, indeed!" 
 "Do you know where Ulfve Mountain lies?" 
 "I have often passed it, as the road from Göteborg to Marstrand
over Hisingen and through Thorsby goes past there." 
 "Do the large stones and hills remain undisturbed?" asked the old
man. 
 "Yes, except one stone, which, if I remember correctly, is toppling
over," said the Hisinger. 
 "That is too bad!" But do you know where Gloshed's Altar is, and does
it remain sound?" 
 "Upon that point," said the sailor, "I have no knowledge." 
 Finally the old man continued, "If you will say to those who now live
in Thorsby and Torrebräcka that they shall not destroy the stones and
elevations at the foot of Ulfve Mount, and, above all, to take care of
Gloshed's Altar, you shall have fair winds for the rest of your
voyage." 
 The Hisinger promised to deliver the message when he arrived home,
whereupon he asked the old man his name, and how he, living so far from
Thorsby, was so well acquainted with matters there. 
 "I'll tell you," said he. "My name is Thore Brock, and I at one time
lived there, but was banished. All my relations are buried at Ulfve
Mountain, and at Gloshed's Altar we were wont to do homage to our gods and
to make our offerings." 
 Hereupon they separated. 
 When the man from Hisinger returned home he went about the fulfillment
of his promise, and, without knowing how, he soon became one of the
principal farmers in the parish.