Once upon a time there was a man who had an only child. Now in those days some people did not have their children baptized while they were little, but waited until they were older. So this child was already seven years old, and the father had not yet had him baptized.  
When the good Lord saw this from heaven, he was annoyed and called Saint John and said to him: "Listen, John, go to such and such a man and ask him why he hasn't had his son baptized yet."  
So Saint John came down to earth and knocked on the man's door.  
"Who's there?" asked the man.  
"It's me, Saint John!"  
"What do you want from me?" the man asked.  
"The good Lord sent me," said the saint. "He wants to know why you haven't had your son baptized yet?"  
"I haven't been able to find a good godparent," answered the man.  
"Well, if that's so," said Saint John, then I'll be your child's godfather."  
"Thank you," said the man, "but that can't be. If you were my child's godfather, you would have only one wish: to take him to paradise as soon as possible, and I don't want that."  
So Saint John had to go back to heaven without having achieved anything.  
Then the good Lord sent out Saint Peter to warn the man. But he didn't do any better. The man gave him the same answers that he had given to Saint John, and he did not want Saint Peter to be his son's godfather.  
Then the good Lord thought: "Just what does he have in mind? He must want to give his son immortality, so I will have to send Death to him."  
Then the good Lord called Death and sent him to the man to ask why he had not yet had the child baptized.  
So Death came to the man and knocked.  
"Who's there?" asked the man.  
"God sent me," replied Death. "He wants to know why your child hasn't been baptized yet."  
"Tell God," said the man, "I haven't found a suitable godparent yet."  
"Do you want me to be his godfather?" asked Death.  
"Who are you then?"  
"I am Death."  
"Yes," cried the man, "I would like you to be my child's godfather, and we shall have him baptized at once."  
So the child was baptized.  
A few months later Godfather Death suddenly came back to the man. The man received him kindly and wanted to serve him all sorts of good things.  
But Death spoke: "Don't go to so much trouble, I just came to take you away."  
"What?" cried the man in astonishment, "I chose you to be my child's godfather, so that you would spare me and my wife and my son."  
"That's not possible," replied Death. "The sickle cuts any grass that it finds in its path. I cannot spare you."  
Then Death took the man into a dark cellar, where a large number of lamps were burning on all the walls.  
"You see," he said, "those are lights of life; every human has such a light, and when it goes out, they must die.  
"Which one is my light?" asked the man.  
Then Death showed him a little lamp in which there was almost no oil left, and when it went out the man fell over and was dead.  
Did Death have the son die as well?  
Yes, of course. Death can spare no one. When his time was up, the son had to die also.