aid 
 The man with the pretended treasure, Old Sultan, and the would-be
Bremen musicians ensured their well being in old age through blunt
trickery. Another group of stories brings justice to helpless oldsters by
awakening a sense of enlightened self interest in the younger generation.
The story of "Half a Blanket" is typical: 
 A man had a father who had grown too old to do anything but
eat and smoke, so the man decided to send him away with nothing but a
blanket. "Just give him half a blanket," said the man's son from his
cradle, "then I'll have half to give you when you grow old and I send you
away." Upon hearing this, the man quickly reconsidered and allowed his old
father to remain after all. 
 Type 980. Retold from Glassie,  Irish Folktales,  no.
24. 
 A variation on this story, a Hispanic version from the American
Southwest, carries the same message, adding the warning between the lines
about giving a woman unbridled authority in household matters. The tale
starts with the explanation that "in the old days it was not unusual to
find several generations living together in one home," then continues: 
 A woman disliked her old father-in-law who lived with her
family, and she insisted he be removed to a small room outside the house.
One winter day the old man, who was suffering from hunger and cold, asked
his grandson to bring him a blanket. The boy found a rug and asked his
father to cut it in half for the grandfather. "Take the whole rug," the
father said. "No," replied the boy. "I must save half for you for when you
are as old as grandfather." The man quickly restored his old father to a
warm room in the house, and from that time on he took care of his needs
and visited him every day. 
 Retold from "The Boy and His Grandfather," Maestas and Anaya,
 Cuentos: Tales from the Hispanic Southwest , pp. 115-117. Type
980. 
 The story of the grandfather who is denied his customary place at the
family table contains the same lesson of enlightened self interest: 
 An old man spilled his soup and let food dribble from his
mouth, so his son made him sit behind the stove and eat from a wooden
bowl. One day the man saw his own son, a boy of four, carving a piece of
wood. "This is a bowl for you to eat from when you are old," he explained.
He immediately restored the old grandfather to his former place at the
table. 
 Source: Retold from  The Old 
Grandfather and His Grandson  
(type 980, Grimm, no. 78).
For additional tales of this type see  Old Grandfathers and Their Grandsons .