On the right bank of the river Mlava, near the village of Krepoljin, is
situated a very high hill,  Gradatr  (Fort) by name, on which one can
see the ruins of an old disabled and deserted fort. The popular tradition
says that it was once a Roman or Latin fort. The Romans who occupied this
fort were very bellicose people. Their leader ordered all the holders of
the fort up to forty years of age to be active fighters, from forty to
fifty to be guards of the fort, and after fifty to be killed, because they
have no military value. Since that period the old men were killed. 
 An old man who was nearing his fiftieth year had a grandson who was
very fond of him. On the eve of the day on which the old man was ordered
to be killed, the enemy attacked the fort. The grandson used this
opportunity and forced his grandfather to fly. The old man fled and hid
himself in a cave which was in the neighborhood. After the enemy were
dispersed, and when the people looked for the old man, they could not find
him. 
 Some time after, the leader commanded them to be ready to go to war in
a
distant land.
 
At the moment when the army was prepared to start, the
grandfather appeared secretly to his grandson and said to him, "For this
long way ride a mare which has a colt, and when you come to an unknown
land, kill the colt, and then go farther. God protect you! Farewell!" 
 The grandson obeyed the orders of his grandfather, rode a mare with a
colt and went with the leader and his army to the war. They went for three
days and then they came to a river, on the opposite side of which was a
dense forest. The young man looked on all sides and was sure that he was
in a perfectly unknown land. Then he secretly killed the colt. Crossing
the river the army marched through the forest. After six days of traveling
they came to a vast plain, where they found the enemy waiting for them.
The fight was very severe, and at the end the leader and his army were
defeated and forced to flee. The vanquished army did not know the way, but
the mare of the young man went in the direction where her colt was lost
and so led them to the river, from which they knew the way to their own
country. 
 Everybody was astonished, and the leader asked the young man who taught
him to act so, and he, after some hesitation, told him that it was his
grandfather. When they came home the leader invited the old man,
recognized his cleverness, and ordered that further on the old men should
not be killed, but respected, because they knew much more than the young
men.