There was once a king of England whose daughter was very famous. She was 
the most beautiful princess ever seen or heard of. But she had one great 
fault -- namely, that she was haughty and proud. Of course she had many 
suitors, but all were refused, and as she possessed a sharp tongue, she 
moreover scorned them, giving nicknames to everyone who was bold enough to 
woo her.   
At that time there was a young prince in Denmark. The fame of her beauty 
had reached him, and he sent word, asking for her hand in marriage. The 
princess answered, however, that she would rather earn her bread by 
spinning all her life than marry such a poor and miserable prince. The 
messengers were obliged to return with this unfavorable response.   
The young prince had determined, however, that he would win her. He 
dispatched fresh messengers with letters, and sent her a gift consisting 
of six beautiful horses, white as milk, with pink muzzles, gold shoes, and 
scarlet rugs. Such horses had never been seen in England before, hence the 
king put in a good word for the Danish prince: He who could send such a 
gift of betrothal must by all means be considered her equal.    
But the beautiful princess ordered the grooms to cut off the manes and 
tails of the six steeds, to soil them with dirt, and turn them over to the 
messengers, whom she instructed to tell the prince that rather than be 
married to him would she sit in the street and sell earthenware.   
When the messengers returned, relating all that the princess had said and 
done, the Danish king became so incensed that he wanted to put to sea with 
all his ships and revenge this insult. His son asked him, however, to 
desist from any such action; he wished to attempt once more, by fair 
means. If he were unsuccessful, he would himself know how to take revenge. 
To this his father assented.   
The prince now built a ship, so beautiful and costly that its like had 
never been. The gunwale was artistically carved with all sorts of animals; 
deer, dragons, and lions were seen jumping about, and the stem and stern 
were richly gilded. The masts were mounted with gold, the sails made of 
silk, every second canvas being red, and the remainder white. This ship 
was manned with the handsomest lads in the country, and the prince gave 
them a letter to the king of England and his proud daughter, the princess, 
asking her to accept him, and receive the ship as his gift of betrothment. 
  
The gorgeous ship rapidly crossed the sea and stopped immediately outside 
of the royal palace. It commanded general attention, no one having seen 
such a magnificent vessel before. The couriers landed and delivered their 
message. Now the king used his best efforts to persuade his daughter. A 
suitor so wealthy and munificent, so true and devoted as this prince, 
certainly deserved a favorable answer.   
The princess graciously listened to his entreaties, feigning an intention 
to think the matter over until the next day. But at night she gave orders 
to sink the ship, and in the morning she told the couriers to return as 
best they could; that she would rather beg her food at the doors than call 
their poor fellow of a Danish prince her husband.   
The couriers returned to Denmark with this disdainful answer, and with the 
tidings of the fate of the king's ship, which was now, with its gilded 
masts and its silken sails, at the bottom of the sea. Upon hearing this, 
the king at once determined to man his fleet and take a bloody revenge. 
The prince dissuaded him, however, vowing solemnly that he would make the 
haughty princess repent the disdain with which she had treated him.   
Upon this he left Denmark quite alone, and reached England, no one knowing 
him. Disguised, as he was, in an old hat, dingy clothes, and wooden shoes, 
he arrived at the palace towards evening and asked the herdsman for a bite 
of bread and a couch. He obtained both, and during the night kept company 
with the cows in the stable. The next morning the beggar -- Greyfoot, so 
he called himself -- sought and obtained permission to help in driving the 
cattle to their watering place. The latter happened to be situated exactly 
outside of the windows occupied by the princess. Greyfoot now opened a 
bundle which he had brought with him, and produced a golden spindle which 
he proceeded to use in driving forth the cows.   
The princess, who was standing at one of the windows, saw the spindle, and 
taking at once a great fancy to it, she sent some one down to inquire 
whether the beggar were willing to sell it. Greyfoot answered that he did 
not care to sell it for money; the price he asked was permission to sleep 
outside of her door the following night.   
"No," said the princess; she could not think of such a price.   
"Very well," answered Greyfoot; "that settles the matter, and I keep my 
spindle."   
The princess had taken it into her head, however, that she must possess 
the beggar's treasure, but as she did not like any one to know that such a 
poor-looking man was admitted to the palace, she sent a secret message by 
one of her maids, telling him to come late at night, and to be gone early 
in the morning. This he did.   
When the princess looked out of the window the next morning, she noticed 
Greyfoot chasing the cows with a golden reel, and at once sent one of her 
maids down to inquire whether it could be bought.   
"Yes," said Greyfoot, "and the price is the same as yesterday."   
When the princess heard this she was not a little astonished by the 
audacity of the beggar, but as the treasure could be obtained in no other 
way, she assented, and everything passed as on the previous night.   
The third morning Greyfoot drove the cattle to the watering place, as 
usual, but this time he was using a weaver's shuttle of pure gold.   
She sent for him, and when he appeared in her presence she said, "Now, 
Greyfoot, how much do you ask for  this  treasure of yours? Will you 
take a hundred dollars for it?"   
"No," answered Greyfoot, "it cannot be bought for money. If you will 
permit me to sleep inside the door of your room tonight, you may have it." 
  
"I think you are mad," said the princess. "No, I cannot hear of any such 
price. But I am willing to pay you two hundred dollars."   
"No," said Greyfoot again; "it must be as I say. If you want the shuttle, 
you must pay the price which I ask. Otherwise, I will keep the treasure 
myself."   
The princess looked at her maids, and they looked back at her, and all 
looked at the magnificent shuttle. She  must  possess it, whispered 
the maids. They would sit in a circle around her, keeping guard the whole 
night.   
Finally the princess told Greyfoot that he might come late at night; they 
would let him in. He must be careful, however, and tell no one, since they 
were all running a great risk. When it grew late, and the princess was 
about to fall asleep, the maids were all sitting around her, each one 
holding a lighted candle in her hands.   
Greyfoot entered, and quietly stretched himself on a rug near the door. 
But as the maids were not accustomed to much waking, one by one they 
became drowsy, and very soon everyone in the room was soundly asleep. As 
the ladies had rested little during the two previous nights, it was no 
wonder that the sun did not wake them very early the next morning.   
The king, who was accustomed to see his daughter at the breakfast table, 
became alarmed when she did not appear as usual, and hastened to her 
rooms. Imagine his surprise when he found, outside of her door an old hat 
and a pair of well-worn wooden shoes. Opening the door quietly, he stole 
into the room. There the princess was, fast asleep, with all her maids; 
and so was Greyfoot, on the rug inside the door.   
Usually the king was a very amicable and quiet man, but when this 
spectacle met his eyes he became angry. He controlled himself, however, 
and called his daughter's name aloud. She awoke, and so did the maids, who 
at once escaped in all directions.   
But the king turned to his daughter and said, "I now see what kind of 
company you prefer, and although it is in my power to let this fellow hang 
and have you buried alive, I will allow you to keep each other. The 
minister shall unite you in marriage, whereupon you will both be sent 
away. I will never bear the sight of you again."   
The king left them, and shortly afterwards the minister appeared with two 
witnesses. The haughty princess was married to Greyfoot, the beggar. Then 
the couple were at liberty to go whither they desired.   
When they passed the barn door Greyfoot turned to the princess, saying, 
"We cannot walk on the highroad in this style; you must change your 
clothes before we depart!"   
So they paid a visit to the herdsman's wife, who gave the princess -- now 
Greyfoot's wife -- a gown of linsey-woolsey, a woolen jacket, a cape, and 
a pair of heavy shoes.   
"That fits better," said Greyfoot, and they walked away.   
At first they walked each on his own side of the road, without speaking; 
but in a little while the princess raised her eyes to look at the man who 
was now her rightful husband. To her astonishment she observed that he was 
neither old nor ugly, but really a handsome young man, in spite of his old 
and dingy clothes.   
Being not accustomed to walk very far, especially with such heavy 
footwear, the princess soon felt exhausted, and said, "Dear Greyfoot, do 
not walk so fast!"   
"No," he returned, "as I have now been burdened with you, I suppose I 
cannot leave you on the open road."   
So he entered the next house and hired an old carriage, the bottom of 
which was covered with straw. They now drove on, until at length they 
arrived at a seaport. Greyfoot immediately sought and obtained passage for 
himself and his wife, as servants, and the princess felt much relieved 
when at last they were out of her father's domains, although she had no 
idea of their destination.   
The voyage ended in Denmark, and when they had safely landed, Greyfoot 
proceeded to rent a small hut in the neighborhood of the royal palace. It 
consisted of only one little room with a stone floor and an open 
fireplace, where she must prepare their frugal meals. In a little while 
Greyfoot went out, and returned with an old spinning wheel and a large 
bundle of tow, of the meanest quality.   
"While you work with this," he said, " I must try to find some occupation, 
as best I can. Neither of us can afford to be idle."   
Thus time passed slowly and quietly. Greyfoot had secured work at the 
palace as a woodcutter, and returned every evening with a loaf of bread 
and a few pennies. His wife was spinning until her fingertips were 
scorched, and her knees shaking under her.   
One evening Greyfoot brought home a wheelbarrow filled with earthenware. 
This he had bought on credit, he said, and she was in duty bound to go to 
town the next day and sell the things. She of course made no objections. 
The next day Greyfoot went to his work, as usual, and his wife set out for 
the town with her earthenware. But when she had just managed to sell a few 
of them, a troop of stately knights came galloping down the street. One of 
the horses became wild and rushed in among her articles, which went into a 
thousand pieces under the heavy hoofs which trampled upon them. The riders 
pursued their way; but the poor princess returned to the hut, and, sitting 
down, wept bitterly.   
In the evening, when Greyfoot returned, she told him of her misfortune. 
"Now we are utterly unfortunate," said he, "for I have no money with which 
to pay for these articles. You will now have to sew a wallet, go from door 
to door, and beg for victuals and pennies, until our debts have been 
paid."   
The princess did as he bid her, and was glad that her husband did not 
scold her for her ill fortune. She begged at everyone's door, bringing 
home, at length, several pieces of bread and some pennies.   
"That will not bring us very far," said Greyfoot, when the princess had 
displayed the contents of the wallet. "I have now found a good place for 
you at the palace. They are preparing for a wedding, and tomorrow you are 
to lend a hand in the kitchen. Do your best and make yourself useful; 
maybe they will keep you and pay you good wages. Tomorrow you will obtain 
your meals and twenty pennies."   
The next morning, before Greyfoot's wife went away, her husband said, " 
Today I must stay at home; I have felt an illness coming upon me, so I 
will rest and try to get better."   
She burst into tears, and told him that when he was ill she could not 
think of leaving him. When he answered, however, that she was expected, 
and necessarily must go, she kissed him good-bye, hoping that he would 
soon feel better, and promising to return as speedily as possible.   
"The haughty princess" spent the whole day among the pots and pans in the 
royal kitchen. When she returned to the hut, Greyfoot told her that he 
felt better, and further related how an order had been issued announcing 
that the Prince of Denmark was to be married to a Russian princess. Her 
costly bridal gown had arrived, but the princess herself, having been 
detained by wind and waves, was unable to arrive in due time for the 
ceremony, and on the following day every girl and woman was to present 
herself at the palace and be measured. She who filled the measure would be 
selected as the bride's deputy. "And you," concluded Greyfoot, "you must 
put in an appearance. If you are fortunate, your wages may be sufficient 
for paying our debts."    
In the morning Greyfoot declared that he felt worse than on the day 
before, but would not keep her from going. She hesitated, but as he 
insisted, she threw her arms around him, kissed him, and left.   
The royal measurer was busy among the many women assembled in the 
courtyard, and it seemed impossible to find anyone who was the right 
measure. But when at length he reached Greyfoot's wife, he declared that 
she was the very person they wanted. Now she was taken into the palace, 
and attired in the gorgeous gown, the bridal veil, and a pair of exquisite 
slippers. When finally the crown was placed on her head, everyone declared 
that the  real  princess could hardly be prettier. In a little while 
a beautiful carriage drawn by six milk-white horses was seen at the door, 
and Greyfoot's wife was asked to enter. The prince was already seated in 
the carriage; she had never seen him, but remembered having heard of him 
in past days.   
They drove along the road until they came to Greyfoot's hut. Seeing 
already at a distance that it was afire, the poor woman in the carriage 
uttered a piercing shriek, and cried, "My husband! save him, for heaven's 
sake! He was ill when I left him, and may not have escaped."   
The prince now spoke to her for the first time, and said, "If that ugly 
woodcutter is your husband, you had better leave him; he is no husband for 
you."   
But she answered, "He is my husband, and was always good and kind to me. 
How could I leave him? Even if you offered me the place which I am now 
occupying for your real bride, I would refuse it, and gladly return to the 
hut where I have lived the happiest part of my life!"   
The prince smilingly answered, "You  are  my real bride, and kept 
your word when you said that rather than marry me would you earn your 
bread by spinning, or by selling earthenware, or beg for it at the doors." 
  
Now she recognized him, and throwing her arms around him, she said that 
her sufferings had been of great benefit to her, and that she would now 
stay with him forever.   
Thus "the haughty princess of England" became queen of Denmark. This 
happened so long ago, however, that hardly any one remembers having seen 
her. But the story is true, nevertheless.