Once upon a time there was a man whose name was Gudbrand. He had a farm
which lay far, far away upon a hillside, and so they called him Gudbrand
on the Hillside. 
 Now, you must know that this man and his wife lived so happily
together, and understood one another so well, that all the husband did the
wife thought so well done, that there was nothing like it in the world,
and she was always glad whatever he turned his hand to. The farm was their
own land, and they had a hundred dollars lying at the bottom of their
chest, and two cows tethered up in a stall in their farmyard. 
 So one day his wife said to Gudbrand, "Do you know, dear, I think we
ought to take one of our cows into town and sell it. That's what I think,
for then we shall have some money in hand, and such well-to-do people as
we ought to have ready money like the rest of the world. As for the
hundred dollars at the bottom of the chest over there, we can't make a
hole in them, and I'm sure I don't know what we want with more than one
cow. Besides, we shall gain a little in another way, for then I shall get
off with only looking after one cow, instead of having, as now, to feed
and litter and water two." 
 Well, Gudbrand thought his wife talked right good sense, so he set off
at once with the cow on his way to town to sell her. But when he got to
the town, there was no one who would buy his cow. 
 "Well, well! Never mind," said Gudbrand. "At the worst, I can only go
back home again with my cow. I've both stable and tether for her, I should
think, and the road is no farther out than in," and with that he began to
toddle home with his cow. 
 But when he had gone a bit of the way, a man met him who had a horse to
sell, so Gudbrand thought it was better to have a horse than a cow, so he
swapped with the man. A little farther on he met a man walking along and
driving a fat pig before him, and he thought it better to have a fat pig
than a horse, so he swapped with the man. After that he went a little
farther, and a man met him with a goat; so he thought it better to have a
goat than a pig, and he swapped with the man that owned the goat. Then he
went on a good bit till he met a man who had a sheep, and he swapped with
him too, for he thought it always better to have a sheep than a goat.
After a while he met a man with a goose, and he swapped away the sheep for
the goose. And when he had walked a long, long time, he met a man with a
rooster, and he swapped with him, for he thought in this wise, "It is
surely better to have a rooster than a goose." Then he went on till the
day was far spent, and he began to get very hungry, so he sold the rooster
for a shilling, and bought food with the money, for, thought Gudbrand on
the Hillside, "It is always better to save one's life than to have a
rooster." 
 After that he went on toward home till he reached his nearest
neighbor's house, where he turned in. 
 "Well," said the owner of the house, "how did things go with you in
town?" 
 "Rather so so," said Gudbrand. "I can't praise my luck, nor do I blame
it either," and with that he told the whole story from first to last. 
 "Ah!" said his friend, "you'll get nicely called over the coals, that
one can see, when you get home to your wife. Heaven help you. I wouldn't
stand in your shoes for anything." 
 "Well," said Gudbrand on the Hillside, "I think things might have gone
much worse with me. But now, whether I have done wrong or not, I have so
kind a wife, she never has a word to say against anything that I do." 
 "Oh!" answered his neighbor, "I hear what you say, but I don't believe
it for all that." 
 "Shall we lay a bet upon it?" asked Gudbrand on the Hillside. "I have a
hundred dollars at the bottom of my chest at home. Will you lay as many
against them?" 
 Yes, the friend was ready to bet, so Gudbrand stayed there till
evening, when it began to get dark, and then they went together to his
house, and the neighbor was to stand outside the door and listen, while
the man went in to see his wife. 
 "Good evening!" said Gudbrand on the Hillside. 
 "Good evening!" said the wife. "Oh, is that you? Now God be
praised." 
 Yes, it was he. So the wife asked how things had gone with him in
town. 
 "Oh, only so so," answered Gudbrand. "Not much to brag of. When I got
to town there was no one who would buy the cow, so you must know I swapped
it away for a horse." 
 "For a horse," said his wife. "Well, that is good of you. Thanks with
all my heart. We are so well-to-do that we may drive to church just as
well as other people, and if we choose to have a horse, we have a right to
get one, I should think. So run out, child, and put up the horse." 
 "Ah!" said Gudbrand, "but you see, I've not got the horse after all,
for when I got a bit farther down the road, I swapped it away for a
pig." 
 "Think of that, now!" said the wife. "You did just as I should have
done myself. A thousand thanks! Now I can have a bit of bacon in the house
to set before people when they come to see me, that I can. What do we want
with a horse? People would only say we had got so proud that we couldn't
walk to church. Go out, child, and put up the pig in the sty." 
 "But I've not got the pig either," said Gudbrand, "for when I got a
little farther on I swapped it away for a milk goat." 
 "Bless us!" cried his wife, "How well you manage everything! Now I
think it over, what should I do with a pig? People would only point at us
and say, 'Yonder they eat up all they have got.' No! Now I have got a
goat, and I shall have milk and cheese, and keep the goat too. Run out,
child, and put up the goat." 
 "No, but I haven't got the goat either," said Gudbrand, "for a little
farther on I swapped it away, and got a fine sheep instead." 
 "You don't say so!" cried his wife. "Why, you do everything to please
me, just as if I had been with you. What do we want with a goat? If I had
it I should lose half my time in climbing up the hills to bring it in. No!
If I have a sheep, I shall have both wool and clothing, and fresh meat in
the house. Run out, child, and put up the sheep." 
 "But I haven't got the sheep any more than the rest," said Gudbrand,
"for when I had gone a bit farther I swapped it away for a goose." 
 "Thank you! Thank you, with all my heart!" cried his wife. "What should
I do with a sheep? I have no spinning wheel nor carding comb, nor should I
care to worry myself with cutting, and shaping, and sewing clothes. We can
buy clothes now, as we have always done; and now I shall have roast goose,
which I have longed for so often; and, besides, down to stuff my little
pillow with. Run out, child, and put up the goose." 
 "Ah!" said Gudbrand, "but I haven't the goose either, for when I had
gone a bit farther I swapped it away for a rooster." 
 "Dear me!" cried his wife. "How you think of everything! Just as I
should have done myself. A rooster! Think of that! Why it's as good as an
eight-day clock, for every morning the rooster crows at four o'clock, and
we shall be able to stir ourselves in good time. What should we do with a
goose? I don't know how to cook it, and as for my pillow, I can stuff it
with grass. Run out, child, and put up the rooster." 
 "But after all I haven't got the rooster," said Gudbrand, "for when I
had gone a bit farther, I got as hungry as a hunter, so I was forced to
sell the rooster for a shilling, for fear I should starve." 
 "Now, God be praised that you did so!" cried his wife. "Whatever you
do, you do it always just after my own heart. What should we do with the
rooster? We are our own masters, I should think, and can lie in bed in the
morning as long as we like. Heaven be thanked that I have got you safely
back again, you who do everything so well that I want neither rooster nor
goose, neither pigs nor cows." 
 Then Gudbrand opened the door and said, "Well, what do you say now?
Have I won the hundred dollars?" 
 And his neighbor was forced to admit that he had.