Once upon a time there was a princess who was so haughty and proud that
no suitor was good enough for her. She made fun of them all, and sent them
about their business, one after the other. But in spite of this, new
suitors kept on coming to the palace, for she was a beauty, the wicked
hussy! 
 One day a prince came to woo her, and his name was Haaken Grizzlebeard.
The first night he was there, the princess commanded the king's jester to
cut off the ears of one of the prince's horses, and to slit the jaws of
the other up to the ears. The next day when the prince went out for a
ride, the princess stood on the porch and watched him. 
 "Well!" she cried,"I never saw the like of this in all my life; the
sharp north wind that blows here has taken the ears off one of your
horses, while the other stood by gaping at what was going on until his
jaws split right up to his ears." 
 With that she broke into a roar of laughter, ran in, slammed the door,
and let him drive off. 
 He returned home; but as he went, he thought to himself that he would
pay her off one day. After a bit, he put on a great beard of moss, threw a
large fur cloak over his clothes, and dressed himself up like a beggar. He
went to a goldsmith and bought a golden spinning wheel, and sat down with
it under the princess's window and began to file away at his spinning
wheel, and to turn it this way and that, for it wasn't quite in order, and
besides, it did not have a stand. 
 So when the princess got up in the morning, she came to the window and
opened it, and asked the beggar if he would sell his golden spinning
wheel. 
 "No, it isn't for sale," said Haaken Grizzlebeard; "but if I may sleep
outside your bedroom door tonight, I'll give it you." 
 The princess thought that that was a good bargain; there could be no
danger in letting him sleep outside her door. 
 So she got the wheel and that night Haaken Grizzlebeard lay down
outside her bedroom. But as the night wore on he began to freeze. 
 "Huttetuttetuttetu! It is so cold; let me in," he cried. 
 "I think that you're out of your mind," said the princess. 
 "Oh, Huttetuttetuttetu! It is so bitter cold, please let me in," said
Haaken Grizzlebeard again. 
 "Be quiet! Hold your tongue!" said the princess. "If my father were to
know that there was a man in the house, I should be in serious
trouble." 
 "Oh, Huttetuttetuttetu! I'm almost frozen to death. Just let me come
inside and lie on the floor," said Haaken Grizzlebeard. 
 There was nothing she could do about it. She had to let him in, and
when he was inside, he lay on the ground and fell sound asleep. 
 Some time afterward, Haaken came again with the stand to the spinning
wheel and sat down under the princess's window, and began to file at it,
for it was not quite in order. When she heard him filing, she opened the
window and began to talk to him, and to ask what he had. 
 "Oh, only the stand to that spinning wheel which your royal highness
bought. I thought that because you had the wheel you might like to have
the stand as well." 
 "What do you want for it?" asked the princess. It was not for sale any
more than the wheel had been, but she might have it if she would let him
sleep on the floor of her bedroom the next night. 
 She agreed, but only if he would to be sure to lie still, and not to
shiver and call out "huttetu," or any such stuff. Haaken Grizzlebeard
promised fair enough, but as the night wore on he began to shiver and
shake, and to ask whether he might not come nearer, and lie on the floor
alongside the princess's bed. 
 She couldn't do anything about it; she had to let him, or the king
would hear the noise he was making. So Haaken Grizzlebeard lay alongside
the princess's bed, and fell sound asleep. 
 It was a long while before Haaken Grizzlebeard came again, this time
with him a golden yarn reel, and he sat down and began to file away at it
under the princess's window. Then came the old story over again. When the
princess heard what was going on, she came to the window and asked him how
he was, and whether he would sell the golden yarn reel? 
 "It is not to be had for money; but I'll give it to you for nothing, if
you'll let me sleep in your bedroom tonight, with my head on your
bedstead." 
 She agreed, but only if he would give his word to be quiet and make no
noise. He said he would do his best to be still; but as the night wore on
he again began to shiver and shake until his teeth chattered. 
 "Huttetuttetuttetu! It is so bitter cold! Do let me get into bed and
warm myself a little," said Haaken Grizzlebeard. 
 "Get into bed!" said the princess; "why, you must be out of your
mind." 
 "Huttetuttetuttetu!" said Haaken; "do let me get into bed.
Huttetuttetuttetu!" 
 "Hush! Hush! For God's sake, be quiet!" said the princess. "If father
knows there is a man in here, I shall be in serious trouble. I'm sure
he'll kill me on the spot." 
 "Huttetuttetuttetu! Let me get into bed," said Haaken Grizzlebeard, who
kept on shivering so that the whole room shook. Well, there was nothing
she could do about it. She had to let him get into bed. He slept soundly
and gently, but a little while later the princess gave birth to a child.
The king grew so wild with rage that he very nearly made an end of both
mother and baby. 
 Just after this happened, Haaken Grizzlebeard came tramping that way
once more, as if by chance, and took his seat down in the kitchen, like
any other beggar. 
 When the princess came out and saw him, she cried, "Ah, God have mercy
on me, for the bad luck you have brought me. Father is ready to fly into a
rage. Let me go home with you." 
 "You're too well bred to follow me," said Haaken, "for I have nothing
but a log hut to live in; and I don't know how I would ever feed you, for
it's all I can do just to find food for myself." 
 "I don't care how you get it, or whether you get it at all," she said;
"only let me be with you, for if I stay here any longer, my father will
surely kill me." 
 So she got permission to go with the beggar, as she called him, and
they walked a long, long way, even though she was not a good walker. When
she left her father's land and entered into another, she asked whose it
was? 
 "Oh! This is Haaken Grizzlebeard's, if you must know," he said. 
 "Indeed!" said the princess. "I could have married him if I had wanted
to, and then I would not have had to walk about like a beggar's wife." 
 They came to grand castles, and woods, and parks, and when she asked
whose they were, the beggar's answer was always the same, "Oh! They are
Haaken Grizzlebeard's." The princess was very sad that she had not chosen
the man who had such broad lands. Last of all they came to a palace, where
he said he was known, and where he thought he could get work for her, so
that they might have something to live on. He built a cabin at the edge of
the woods for them to live in. Every day he went to the king's palace, as
he said, to chop wood and draw water for the cook, and when he came back
he brought a few scraps of food; but they did not go very far. 
 One day, when he came home from the palace, he said, "Tomorrow I will
stay at home and look after the baby, but you must get ready to go to the
palace, for the prince said you were to come and try your hand at
baking." 
 "Bake!" said the princess; "I can't bake, for I never did such a thing
in my life." 
 "Well, you must go," said Haaken, "since the prince has said it. If you
can't bake, you can learn; you have only got to look how the rest bake;
and as you leave, you must steal some bread for me." 
 "I can't steal," said the princess. 
 "You can learn that too," said Haaken; "you know that we are very short
of food. But take care that the prince doesn't see you, for he has eyes
everywhere." 
 When she was on her way, Haaken ran by a shortcut and reached the
palace long before her, and took off his rags and beard, and put on his
princely robes. 
 The princess took her turn in the bakehouse, and did as Haaken had
asked her, for she stole bread until her pockets were crammed full. That
evening, when she was about to go home, the prince said, "We don't know
very much about this old vagabond woman. I think we'd best see if she is
taking anything away with her." 
 He thrust his hand into all her pockets, and felt her all over, and
when he found the bread, he became very angry, and raised a great
stir. 
 She began to moan and cry, and said, "The beggar made me do it, and I
couldn't help it." 
 "Well," said the prince at last, "it ought to have gone hard with you;
but for the beggar's sake I will forgive you this time." 
 When she was on her way home, he took off his robes, put on his skin
cloak, and his false beard, and reached the cabin before her. When she
came home, he was busy tending the baby. 
 "You made me go against my own conscience. Today was the first time I
ever stole, and it will be the last;" and with that she told him how it
had gone with her, and what the prince had said. 
 A few days later, Haaken Grizzlebeard came home in the evening and
said, "Tomorrow I will stay at home and tend the baby, for they are going
to kill a pig at the palace, and you must help them make sausages." 
 "I make sausages!" said the princess; "I can't do any such thing. I
have eaten sausages often enough, but I have never made one in my
life." 
 But there was nothing that she could do about it; the prince had said
it, and she had to go. As for not knowing how, she only had to do what the
others did, and at the same time Haaken asked her to steal some sausages
for him. 
 "No, I can't steal," she said; "you know how it went last time." 
 "Well, you can learn to steal. Who knows? You may have better luck this
time," said Haaken Grizzlebeard. 
 When she was on her way, Haaken ran by a shortcut, reached the palace
long before her, took off his skin cloak and false beard, and stood in the
kitchen with his royal robes as she came in. So the princess stood by when
the pig was killed. She made sausages with the others, and she did as
Haaken had told her to, and stuffed her pockets full of sausages. That
evening, when she was about to go home, the prince said, "This beggar's
wife was long fingered last time; we had better see that she isn't
carrying anything off." 
 So he began to thrust his hands into her pockets, and when he found the
sausages he was again very angry, and made a great to do, threatening to
send for the constable and have her thrown into jail. 
 "Oh, God bless your royal highness; do let me off! The beggar made me
do it," she said, and cried bitterly. 
 "Well," said Haaken,"you ought to be punished for it; but for the
beggar's sake I forgive you." 
 When she was gone, he changed his clothes again, ran by the shortcut,
and when she reached the cabin, there he was before her. She told him the
whole story, and swore it was the last time he would get her to do such a
thing. 
 Now a little later the man came home from the palace and said, "Our
prince is going to be married, but the bride is sick, so the tailor can't
measure her for her wedding gown. The prince wants you to go to the palace
and be measured instead of the bride; for he says that you are just the
same height and shape. But after you have been measured, don't just leave.
You can stand about, and when the tailor cuts out the gown, you can pick
up the largest scraps, and bring them home for a vest for me." 
 "No, I can't steal," she said; "besides, you know how it went last
time." 
 "You can learn then," said Haaken, "and you may have better luck this
time." 
 She thought it bad, but still she went and did as she was told. She
stood by while the tailor was cutting out the gown, and she swept up all
the biggest scraps, and stuffed them into her pockets; and when she was on
her way out, the prince said, "We may as well see if this old girl has not
been long fingered this time too." 
 So he began to feel and search her pockets, and when he found the
pieces he became very angry, and began to stamp and scold furiously, while
she cried and said, "Please forgive me; the beggar made me do it, and I
couldn't help it." 
 "Well, you ought to be punished for it," said Haaken; "but for the
beggar's sake I forgive you." 
 So it went now just as it had gone before, and when she got back to the
cabin, the beggar was there before her. "Oh, Heaven help me," she said;
"you will be the death of me by making me wicked. The prince was so angry
that he threatened me both with the constable and jail." 
 One evening, some time later, Haaken came home to the cabin and said,
"The prince wants you to go up to the palace and stand in for the bride,
for the bride is still sick in bed. He won't put off the wedding, and he
says, that you are so like her, that no one could tell one from the other;
so tomorrow you must get ready to go to the palace." 
 "I think that you are out of your mind, both you and the prince," she
said. "Do you think I look fit to stand in the bride's place? Look at me!
Can any beggar's wench look worse than I?" 
 "Well, the prince said you were to go, and so you have to go," said
Haaken Grizzlebeard. 
 There was nothing that she could do about it. She had to go; and when
she reached the palace, they dressed her out so finely that no princess
ever looked so beautiful. 
 The bridal procession went to church, where she stood in for the bride,
and when they came back, there was dancing and merriment in the palace.
But just as she was dancing with the prince, she saw a gleam of light
through the window, and behold, the cabin at the edge of the woods was all
one bright flame. 
 "Oh! The beggar, and the baby, and the cabin," she screamed out, and
was just about to faint. 
 "Here is the beggar, and there is the baby, and so let the cabin burn
away," said Haaken Grizzlebeard. 
 She recognized him again, and then the joy and celebration began for
real. Since that time, I have heard nothing more about them.