Editor's Note (DLA) 
In twenty-eight rhymed stanzas Rober Burns describes how "some merry, friendly, countra folks" convened on Halloween to perform various traditional rituals, with the hope of thus conjuring up images of their future marriage partners. Each ritual, described in Scottish dialect, is elucidated with an explanatory footnote.  
 
 Foreword 
The following POEM will, by many Readers, be well enough understood; but, for the sake of those who are unacquainted with the manners and traditions of the country where the scene is cast, Notes are added, to give some account of the principal Charms and Spells of that Night, so big with Prophecy to the Peasantry in the West of Scotland. The passion of prying into Futurity makes a striking part of the history of Human-nature, in it's rude ftate, in all ages and nations; and it may be some entertainment to a philosophic mind, if any such should honor the Author with a perusal, to see the remains of it, among the more unenlightened in our own.  
 
 Preface 
 
 
Yes! Let the Rich deride, the Proud disdain,  
The simple pleasures of the lowly train;  
To me more dear, congenial to my heart,  
One native charm, than all the gloss of art.  
 
GOLDSMITH
 
 
 Note to the Title "Halloween" 
Is thought to be a night when Witches, Devils, and other mischief making beings, are all abroad on their baneful, midnight errands: particularly, those aerial people, the Fairies, are said, on that night, to hold a grand Anniversary.  
 
 Note to Stanza 4 
 The first ceremony of Halloween, is, pulling each a  Stock  or plant of kail. They must go out, hand in hand, with eyes shut, and pull the first they meet with: its being big or little, straight or crooked, is prophetic of the size and shape of the grand object of all their Spells -- the husband or wife. If any  yird , or earth, stick to the root, that is  tocher , or fortune; and the taste of the  cufloc , that is, the heart of the stem, is indicative of the natural temper and disposition. Lastly, the stems, or to give them their ordinary appellation, the  runts , are placed somewhere above the head of the door; and the christian names of the people whom chance brings into the house, are, according to the priority of placing the  runts , the names in question.  
 
 Note to Stanza 6 
They go to the barn-yard, and pull each, at three several times, a stalk of Oats. If the third stalk wants the  top-pickle , that is, the grain at the top of the stalk, the party in question will want the Maidenhead.  
 
Note to Stanza 7 
Burning the nuts is a favourite charm. They name the lad and lass to each particular nut, as they lay them in the fire; and according as they burn quietly together, or start from beside one another, the course and issue of the Courtship will be.  
 
 Note to Stanza 11  
Whoever would, with success, try this spell, must strcitly observe these directions. Steal out, all alone, to the  kiln , and, darkling, throw into the  pot , a clew of blue yarn; wind it in a new clew off the old one; and towards the latter end, something will hold the thread: demand,  wha hands?  i. e. who holds? and answer will be returned from the kiln pot, by naming the christian and sirname of your future Spouse.  
 
 Note to Stanza 13 
 Take a candle, and go, alone, to a looking glass: eat an apple before it, and some traditions say you should comb your hair all the time: the face of your conjugal companion,  to be , will be seen in the glass, as if peeping over your shoulder.  
 
 Note to Stanza 16 
Steal out, unperceived, and sow a handful of hemp seed; harrowing it with any thing you can conveniently draw after you. Repeat, now and then, "Hemp seed I saw thee, Hemp seed I saw thee; and him (or her) that is to be my true love, I come after me and pou thee." Look over your left shoulder, and you will see the appearance of the person invoked, in the attitude of pulling hemp. Some traditions say, "come after me and shaw thee," that is, show thyself; in which case it simply appears. Others omit the harrowing, and say, "come after me and harrow thee."  
 
 Note to Stanza 21 
This charm must likewise be performed, unperceived and alone. You go to the  barn , and open both doors; taking them off the hinges, if possible; for there is danger, that the Being, about to appear, may shut the doors, and do you some mischief. Then take that inftrument used in winnowing the corn, which, in our country dialect, we call a  wecht ; and go thro' all the attitudes of letting down corn against the wind. Repeat it three times; and the third time, an apparition will pass thro' the barn, in at the windy door, and out at the other, having both the figure in question and the appearance or retinue, marking the employment or station in life.  
 
 Note to Stanza 23 
Take an opportunity of going, unnoticed, to a  Bear-stack , and fathom it three times round. The last fathom of the last time, you will catch in your arms, the appearance of your future conjugal yoke-fellow.  
 
 Note to Stanza 24 
You go out, one or more, for this is a social spell, to a south-running spring or rivulet, where "three Lairds' lands meet," and dip your left shirt-sleeve. Go to bed in sight of a fire, and hang your wet sleeve before it to dry. Ly awake; and sometime near midnight, an apparition, having the exact figure of the grand object in question, will come and turn the sleeve, as if to dry the other side of it.  
 
 Note to Stanza 27 
Take three dishes; put clean water in one, foul water in another, and leave the third empty: blindfold a person, and lead him to the hearth where the dishes are ranged; he (or she) dips the left hand: if by chance in the clean water, the future husband or wife will come to the bar of Matrimony, a Maid; if in the foul, a widow; if in the empty dish, it foretells, with equal certainty, no marriage at all. It is repeated three times; and every time the arrangement of the dishes is aliered.