On Hallowe'en night many customs are practiced in my district. On that night it is said that "pookas" and other evil spirits roam from house to house casting evil spells on man and beast, so on that account everybody stays indoors.  
In the evening the woman of the house makes a sweet cake and puts a ring in it,. At supper that night whoever happens to get the ring is supposed to be the first to get married. Two nuts are also placed beside the fire and the name of a boy and girl put on each of them. If they happen to jump into the fire they will not be married, but if they remain together they will. Three saucers are then procured, water is placed in one, clay in another and a ring on the third. Then the company are blindfolded on turn. If they touch the water, they will cross water before the year is out. If they touch clay they will die, and if they ring is touched they will be married.  
This custom is never practised nowadays, but was practised much long ago. One of the girls of the house went into a dark room and peeled an apple before a mirror. At the hour of midnight she was supposed to see the face of her future husband in the glass. About sixty years ago a girl named McDonagh who live in Keash was said to have seen her future husband one Hallowe'en night. About two months afterwards she was returning from the town one evening when she met the very same (roads) man as she had seen in the looking-glass. On the instant she fell in a faint on the road. She never recovered from the shock and in less than three months afterwards, she died.  
The following custom was also practised long ago. One of the girls of the house went to a lime-kiln at the hour of mid-night and brought a ball of wool with her. She threw the wool into the lime-kiln and held the end of the thread. She then shouted "who holds the wool?" three times and her future husband was supposed to shout up his name.  
On this night also cabbage is strewn about the roads and in the towns the knockers on the door are tied together.  
 
The above was told by: Mr. Cryan, Tully, County Sligo. 
Written by: Maeve Turbitt, Boyle, County Roscommon.