One day I was traveling on foot from Galway to Dublin, and the darkness
came on me and I ten miles from the town I was wanting to pass the night
in. Then a hard rain began to fall and I was tired walking, so when I saw
a sort of a house with no roof on it up against the road, I got in the way
the walls would give me shelter. 
 As I was looking round I saw a light in some trees two perches off, and
thinking any sort of a house would be better than where I was, I got over
a wall and went up to the house to look in at the window. 
 I saw a dead laid man on a table, and candles lighted, and a woman
watching
him. I was frightened when I saw him, but it was raining hard, and I said
to myself, if he was dead he couldn't hurt me. Then I knocked on the door
and the woman came and opened it. 
 "Good evening, ma'am," says I. 
 "Good evening kindly, stranger," says she. "Come in out of the
rain." 
 Then she took me in and told me her husband was after dying on her, and
she was watching him that night. 
 "But it's thirsty you'll be, stranger," says she. "Come into the
parlor." 
 Then she took me into the parlor -- and it was a fine clean house --
and she put a cup, with a saucer under it, on the table before me with
fine sugar and bread. 
 When I'd had a cup of tea I went back into the kitchen where the dead
man was lying, and she gave me a fine new pipe off the table with a drop
of spirits. 
 "Stranger," says she, "would you be afeard to be alone with
himself?" 
 "Not a bit in the world, ma'am," says I; "he that's dead can do no
hurt." 
 Then she said she wanted to go over and tell the neighbors the way her
husband was after dying on her, and she went out and locked the door
behind her. 
 I smoked one pipe, and I leaned out and took another off the table. I
was smoking it with my hand on the back of my chair -- the way you are
yourself this minute, God bless you -- and I looking on the dead man, when
he opened his eyes as wide as myself and looked at me. 
 "Don't be afeard, stranger," said the dead man; "I'm not dead at all in
the world. Come here and help me up and I'll tell you all about it." 
 Well, I went up and took the sheet off of him, and I saw that he had a
fine clean shirt on his body, and fine flannel drawers. 
 He sat up then, and says he, "I've got a bad wife, stranger, and I let
on to be dead the way I'd catch her goings on." 
 Then he got two fine sticks he had to keep down his wife, and put them
at each side of his body, and he laid himself out again as if he was
dead. 
 In half and hour his wife came back and a young man along with her.
Well, she gave him his tea, and she told him he was tired, and he would do
right to go and lie down in the bedroom. 
 The young man went in and the woman sat down to watch by the dead man.
A while after she got up and "Stranger," says she, "I'm going in to get
the candle out of the room; I'm thinking the young man will be asleep by
this time." She went into the bedroom, but the divil a bit of her came
back. 
 Then the dead man got up, and took one stick, and he gave the other to
myself. We went in and saw them lying together with her head on his
arm. 
 The dead man hit him a blow with the stick so that the blood out of him
leapt up and hit the gallery. 
 That is my story.