It was believed at one time that the Finns [Sami] frequently came over to
Shetland taking the form of seals. In this connection a remarkable tale
was told in Papa Stoor ["Big Priest" Island].
 
The islanders were often in the habit of visiting the outlying Vee
Skerries for the purpose of hunting seals. On one occasion a man named
Herman Perk, accompanied by  others, left for the skerries in a small
boat. When they arrived there Herman was landed on the rocks, but his
companions remained in the boat to prevent it getting damaged. It
happened, however, that a severe storm burst without warning, and the men
found after several daring attempts, that it was quite impossible to get
Herman off again. The storm was increasing in severity, and latterly they
were compelled, for their own safety, to attempt getting back to Papa.
After a terrible passage they succeeded in reaching the island, and their
first act was to proceed to the home of their ill-fated companion to tell
his folk what had befallen him. Imagine their surprise, however, on
finding him comfortably seated at his fireside.
 
Herman had a strange story to tell them. Shortly after the boat left the
skerries, he observed a large seal coming up, and as he watched its
progress, it suddenly raised itself in the angry sea, and he became aware
that it was speaking to him.
 
"Herman Perk," it said, "you have destroyed many of our folks in your
time, yet nevertheless if you will undertake to do me a service, I will
carry you in safety to Papa tonight. Some time ago my wife Maryara was
made captive in Papa. Her skin is now hanging in the  skio  (hut for
drying fish) at Nortoos, and without it she cannot return with me to
Finmark [in northern Norway]. It is the third skin from the door, and I
wish you to bring it to me."
 
Herman had readily agreed to this proposition, whereupon he was told to
cut two slits in the seal's back as supports for his feet, and then place
his arms firmly round the animal's neck. The latter immediately took to
the water, and in a remarkably short time Herman had the gratification of
landing safely in Papa.
 
True to his promise, he went to the  skio  indicated, where he found
the skin without any difficulty, and carried it down to the beach. The
seal was waiting his coming, and at its side was the most beautiful woman
he had ever beheld. The seal gave the skin to its lovely companion, and
then apparently left its own body behind, and the happy pair immediately
took their departure over the sea.
 
The following morning Herman went again to Nortoos. There, sure enough,
lay the skin of a large seal, and it had two cuts behind the flippers. He
placed it where he had taken the other from.
 
After that Herman was a prosperous man, but he was never known to visit
the Vee Skerries again.