Staufenberg, the ancestral castle of the knight Peter Dimringer -- the
subject of legend -- is in Ortenau not far from Offenburg. Early one
Whitsunday the knight had his servant saddle his horse, for he wanted to
ride from his fortress to Nussbach to hear the morning prayers. The boy
rode ahead. As he entered the forest he saw a beautiful, richly bejeweled
maiden sitting all alone on a rock. She greeted him, and the servant rode
on. Soon thereafter Herr Peter himself came by, looked at her with
pleasure, then greeted the maiden and spoke to her cordially. 
 She bowed to him and said, "God thank you for your greeting." 
 Then Peter dismounted his horse. She offered her hands to him. He
lifted her from the rock and put his arms around her. They sat in the
grass and talked about what she was doing. 
 "Pardon me, my beautiful lady, may I ask you a sincere question? Tell
me, why are you sitting here alone with no one near you?" 
 "I tell you friend, on my honor, I have been waiting here for you. I
have loved you since you first learned to ride a horse. I have secretly
watched over you and protected you with my own hand, keeping you from harm
in battles and in wars, on roads and on byways." 
 The knight answered virtuously, "Nothing better could have happened to
me than to have met you. My desire is to be with you until death." 
 "That can be," said the maiden, "if you will follow my words. If you
want to love me then you must take no other woman in marriage. If you were
to do so, you would die on the third day. Whenever you are alone and
desire me, I will be with you immediately, and you will live happily and
with pleasure." 
 Herr Peter said, "My lady, is that all true?" 
 With God as her witness, she swore it was true. Then he promised to be
hers, and they exchanged vows with each other. The lady asked that the
wedding be held at Staufenberg. She gave him a beautiful ring. They
laughed together virtuously and embraced, and then Herr Peter continued on
his way. He attended mass in the village and said his own prayers, then
returned home to his fortress. 
 As soon as he was alone in his bower, he thought to himself, "If only I
had my dear bride here with me, whom I found out there on the rock!" As
soon as he said these words she stood there before his eyes. They kissed
one another and were together with pleasure. 
 Thus they lived for a while. In addition, she gave him money and
property, so that he could have a good life on earth. Later he went
abroad, and wherever he went, his wife was with him whenever he wished for
her. 
 Finally he returned to his homeland. His brothers and friends insisted
that he take himself a wife. He was taken back and tried to make an
excuse. They applied even more pressure through a wise man, one of his
relatives. 
 Herr Peter answered, "I will have my body cut into strips before I
marry." 
 That evening after they had left, his wife already knew what they were
trying to do, and he repeated his pledge to her. 
 At that time the German king was to be elected in Frankfurt, and Herr
von Staufenberg, accompanied by many servants and noblemen, journeyed
there. He distinguished himself so greatly at the tournament that he
attracted the king's attention, and in the end the king offered him the
hand in marriage of his aunt from Kärnten [Carinthia]. Herr Peter,
filled with concern, rejected the proposal. This caused a great stir among
the princes, who wanted to know his reason. Finally he told them that he
already had a beautiful wife who was exceedingly good to him, and on
account of whom he could not take another one, or within three days he
would be dead. 
 Then the bishop said, "Herr, let me see the woman." 
 He said, "She does not allow herself to be seen by anyone but me." 
 "Then she is not a true woman," they all said, "but from the devil. And
if you are making love with a she-devil more than with pure women, that
will corrupt your name and your reputation before the whole world." 
 Confused by this talk, Herr von Staufenberg said that he wanted to do
whatever the king desired of him, and he was forthwith betrothed to the
maiden and given costly royal gifts. 
 In accordance with Peter's wishes, the wedding was to take place in
Ortenau.  
 The next time his wife came to him she reproached him sadly for having
violated her prohibition and his promise, for which he would now forfeit
his young life. "I will give you the following sign: When, at your wedding
celebration, you together with the other men and women see my foot then
you must immediately confess your sins and prepare yourself for
death." 
 With that Peter thought about the clergyman's words, that perhaps she
was only trying to enchant him with these threats and that it was all only
a lie. 
 The young bride was soon brought to Staufenberg, and a great feast was
held. The knight was seated across from her at the table when they
suddenly saw something push through the ceiling: a beautiful human foot,
up to the knee, as white as ivory. 
 The knight turned pale and cried out, "Oh, my friends, you have
destroyed me. In three days I shall be dead." 
 The foot disappeared without leaving a hole in the ceiling. The piping,
dancing, and singing ceased, and a clergyman was summoned. The knight took
leave from his bride, confessed his sins, and then his heart ruptured. His
young wife retreated to a convent and prayed to God for his soul. The
valiant knight was mourned in all the German lands. 
 In the sixteenth century, according to the testimony of Fischart,
people throughout the entire region still knew the story of Peter from
Staufenberg and the beautiful sea sprite, as they called her in those
days. To this day the Zwölfstein [Twelve-Stone] can be seen between
Staufenberg, Nussbach, and Weilershofen, where she first appeared to him.
And in the castle they still show the room where she stayed from time to
time.