Once, in a mountainous district, there lived a certain farmer, whose name 
and that of his farm have not been handed down to us; so we cannot tell 
them. He was unmarried, and had a housekeeper named Hildur, concerning 
whose family and descent he knew nothing whatever. She had all the indoor 
affairs of the farm under her charge, and managed them wondrous well. All 
the inmates of the house, the farmer himself to boot, were fond of her, as 
she was clean and thrifty in her habits, and kind and gentle in speech. 
  
Everything about the place flourished exceedingly, but the farmer always 
found the greatest difficulty in hiring a herdsman; a very important 
matter, as the well-being of the farm depended not a little on the care 
taken of the sheep. This difficulty did not arise from any fault of the 
farmer's own, or from neglect on the part of the housekeeper to the 
comforts of the servants, but from the fact, that no herdsman who entered 
his service lived more than a year, each one being without fail found dead 
in his bed, on the morning of Christmas Day. No wonder, therefore, the 
farmer found herdsmen scarce.   
In those times it was the custom of the country to spend the night of 
Christmas Eve at church, and this occasion for service was looked upon as 
a very solemn one. But so far was this farm from the church, that the 
herdsmen, who did not return from their flocks till late in the evening, 
were unable to go to it on that night until long after the usual time; and 
as for Hildur, she always remained behind to take care of the house, and 
always had so much to do in the way of cleaning the rooms and dealing out 
the rations for the servants, that the family used to come home from 
church and go to bed long before she had finished her work, and was able 
to go to bed herself.   
The more the reports of the death of herdsman after herdsman, on the night 
of Christmas Eve, were spread abroad, the greater became the difficulty 
the farmer found in hiring one, although it was never supposed for an 
instant that violence was used towards the men, as no mark had ever been 
found on their bodies; and as, moreover, there was no one to suspect. At 
length the farmer declared that his conscience would no longer let him 
thus hire men only in order that they might die, so he determined in 
future to let luck take care of his sheep, or the sheep take care of 
themselves.   
Not long after he had made this determination, a bold and hardy-looking 
man came to him and made him a proffer of his services.   
The farmer said, "My good friend, I am not in so great need of your 
services as to hire you."   
Then the man asked him, "Have you, then, taken a herdsman for this 
winter?"   
The farmer said, "No; for I suppose you know what a terrible fate has 
hitherto befallen every one I have hired."   
"I have heard of it," said the other, "but the fear of it shall neither 
trouble me nor prevent my keeping your sheep this winter for you, if you 
will but make up your mind to take me."   
But the farmer would not hear of it at first. "For," said he, "it is a 
pity, indeed, that so fine a fellow as you should lose your chance of 
life. Begone, if you are wise, and get work elsewhere."   
Yet still the man declared, again and again, that he cared not a whit for 
the terrors of Christmas Eve, and still urged the farmer to hire him.   
At length the farmer consented, in answer to the man's urgent prayer, to 
take him as herdsman; and very well they agreed together. For everyone, 
both high and low, liked the man, as he was honest and open, zealous in 
everything he laid his hands to, and willing to do anyone a good turn, if 
need were.   
On Christmas Eve, towards nightfall, the farmer and all his family went 
(as has been before declared to be the custom) to church, except Hildur, 
who remained behind to look after household matters, and the herdsman, who 
could not leave his sheep in time. Late in the evening, the latter as 
usual returned home, and after having eaten his supper, went to bed.   
As soon as he was well between the sheets, the remembrance struck him of 
what had befallen fallen all the former herdsmen in his position on the 
same evening, and he thought it would be the best plan for him to he awake 
and thus to be ready for any accident, though he was mighty little 
troubled with fear. Quite late at night, he heard the farmer and his 
family return from church, enter the house, and having taken supper, go to 
bed. Still, nothing happened, except that whenever he closed his eyes for 
a moment, a strange and deadly faintness stole over him, which only acted 
as one reason the more for his doing his best to keep awake.   
Shortly after he had become aware of these feelings, he heard someone 
creep stealthily up to the side of his bed, and looking through the gloom 
at the figure, fancied he recognized Hildur the housekeeper. So he feigned 
to be fast asleep, and felt her place something in his mouth, which he 
knew instantly to be the bit of a magic bridle, but yet allowed her to fix 
it on him, without moving. When she had fastened the bridle, she dragged 
him from his bed with it, and out of the farmhouse, without his being 
either able or willing to make the least resistance. Then mounting on his 
back, she made him rise from the ground as if on wings, and rode him 
through the air, till they arrived at a huge and awful precipice, which 
yawned, like a great well, down into the earth.   
She dismounted at a large stone, and fastening the reins to it, leaped 
into the precipice. But the herdsman, objecting strongly to being tied to 
this stone all night, and thinking to himself that it would be no bad 
thing to know what became of the woman, tried to escape, bridle and all, 
from the stone. This he found, however, to be impossible, for as long as 
the bit was in his mouth, he was quite powerless to get away. So he 
managed, after a short struggle, to get the bridle off his head, and 
having so done, leapt into the precipice, down which he had seen Hildur 
disappear. After sinking for a long, long time, he caught a glimpse of 
Hildur beneath him, and at last they came to some beautiful green meadows. 
  
From all this, the man guessed that Hildur was by no means a common 
mortal, as she had before made believe to be, and feared if he were to 
follow her along these green fields, and she turn round and catch sight of 
him, he might, not unlikely, pay for his curiosity with his life. So he 
took a magic stone which he always carried about him, the nature of which 
was to make him invisible when he held it in his palm, and placing it in 
the hollow of his hand, ran after her with all his strength.   
When they had gone some way along the meadows, a splendid palace rose 
before them, with the way to which Hildur seemed perfectly well 
acquainted. At her approach a great crowd of people came forth from the 
doors, and saluted Hildur with respect and joy.   
Foremost of these walked a man of kingly and noble aspect, whose 
salutation seemed to be that of a lover or a husband. All the rest bowed 
to her as if she were their queen. This man was accompanied by two 
children, who ran up to Hildur, calling her mother, and embraced her. 
After the people had welcomed their queen, they all returned to the 
palace, where they dressed her in royal robes, and loaded her hands with 
costly rings and bracelets.   
The herdsman followed the crowd, and posted himself where he would be 
least in the way of the company, but where he could catch sight easily of 
all that passed, and lose nothing. So gorgeous and dazzling were the 
hangings of the hall, and the silver and golden vessels on the table, that 
he thought he had never, in all his life before, seen the like; not to 
mention the wonderful dishes and wines which seemed plentiful there, and 
which, only by the look of them, filled his mouth with water, while he 
would much rather have filled it with something else.   
After he had waited a little time, Hildur appeared in the hall, and all 
the assembled guests were begged to take their seats, while Hildur sat on 
her throne beside the king; after which all the people of the court ranged 
themselves on each side of the royal couple, and the feast commenced.   
When it was concluded, the various guests amused themselves, some by 
dancing, some by singing, others by drinking and revel; but the king and 
queen talked together, and seemed to the herdsman to be very sad.   
While they were thus conversing, three children, younger than those the 
man had seen before, ran in, and clung round the neck of their mother. 
Hildur received them with all a mother's love, and, as the youngest was 
restless, put it on the ground and gave it one of her rings to play with. 
  
After the little one had played a while with the ring he lost it, and it 
rolled along the floor towards the herdsman, who, being invisible, picked 
it up without being perceived, and put it carefully into his pocket. Of 
course all search for it by the guests was in vain.   
When the night was far advanced, Hildur made preparations for departure, 
at which all the people assembled showed great sorrow, and begged her to 
remain longer. The herdsman had observed, that in one corner of the hall 
sat an old and ugly woman, who had neither received the queen with joy nor 
pressed her to stay longer.   
As soon as the king perceived that Hildur addressed herself to her 
journey, and that neither his entreaties nor those of the assembly could 
induce her to stay, he went up to the old woman, and said to her. "Mother, 
rid us now of thy curse; cause no longer my queen to live apart and afar 
from me. Surely her short and rare visits are more pain to me than joy." 
  
The old woman answered him with a wrathful face. "Never will I depart from 
what I have said. My words shall hold true in all their force, and on no 
condition will I abolish my curse."   
On this the king turned from her, and going up to his wife, entreated her 
in the fondest and most loving terms not to depart from him.   
The queen answered, "The infernal power of thy mother's curse forces me to 
go, and perchance this may be the last time that I shall see thee. For 
lying, as I do, under this horrible ban, it is not possible that my 
constant murders can remain much longer secret, and then I must suffer the 
full penalty of crimes which I have committed against my will."   
While she was thus speaking the herdsman sped from the palace and across 
the fields to the precipice, up which he mounted as rapidly as he had come 
down, thanks to the magic stone.   
When he arrived at the rock he put the stone into his pocket, and the 
bridle over his head again, and awaited the coming of the elf queen. He 
had not long to wait, for very soon afterwards Hildur came up through the 
abyss, and mounted on his back, and off they flew again to the farmhouse, 
where Hildur, taking the bridle from his head, placed him again in his 
bed, and retired to her own. The herdsman, who by this time was well tired 
out, now considered it safe to go to sleep, which he did, so soundly as 
not to wake till quite late on Christmas morning. Early that same day the 
farmer rose, agitated and filled with the fear that, instead of passing 
Christmas in joy, he should assuredly, as he so often had before, find his 
herdsman dead, and pass it in sorrow and mourning. So he and all the rest 
of the family went to the bedside of the herdsman.   
When the farmer had looked at him and found him breathing, he praised God 
aloud for his mercy in preserving the man from death.   
Not long afterwards the man himself awoke and got up.   
Wondering at his strange preservation the farmer asked him how he had 
passed the night, and whether he had seen or heard anything.   
The man replied, "No; but I have had a very curious dream."   
"What was it?" asked the farmer.   
Upon which the man related everything that had passed in the night, 
circumstance for circumstance, and word for word, as well as he could 
remember.   
When he had finished his story everyone was silent for wonder, except 
Hildur, who went up to him and said, "I declare you to be a liar in all 
that you have said, unless you can prove it by sure evidence."   
Not in the least abashed, the herdsman took from his pocket the ring which 
he had picked up on the floor of the hall in Elf-Land, and showing it to 
her said, "Though my dream needs no proof, yet here is one you will not 
doubtless deem other than a sure one; for is not this your gold ring, 
Queen Hildur?"   
Hildur answered, "It is, no doubt, my ring. Happy man! may you prosper in 
all you undertake, for you have released me from the awful yoke which my 
mother-in-law laid, in her wrath, upon me, and from the curse of a yearly 
murder."   
And then Hildur told them the story of her life as follows: 
 
I was born of an obscure family among the elves. Our king fell in love 
with me and married me, in spite of the strong disapproval of his mother. 
  
She swore eternal hatred to me in her anger against her son, and said to 
him, "Short shall be your joy with this fair wife of yours, for you shall 
see her but once a year, and that only at the expense of a murder. This is 
my curse upon her, and it shall be carried out to the letter. She shall go 
and serve in the upper world, this queen, and every Christmas Eve shall 
ride a man, one of her fellow servants, with this magic bridle, to the 
confines of Elf-Land, where she shall pass a few hours with you, and then 
ride him back again till his very heart breaks with toil, and his very 
life leaves him. Let her thus enjoy her queenship."   
And this horrible fate was to cling to me. until I should either have 
these murders brought home to me, and be condemned to death, or should 
meet with a gallant man, like this herdsman, who should have nerve and 
courage to follow me down into Elf-Land, and be able to prove afterwards 
that he had been there with me, and seen the customs of my people.   
And now I must confess that all the former herdsmen were slain by me, but 
no penalty shall touch me for their murders, as I committed them against 
my will.   
And as for you, O courageous man, who have dared, the first of human 
beings, to explore the realms of Elf-Land, and have freed me from the yoke 
of this awful curse, I will reward you in times to come, but not now.   
A deep longing for my home and my loved ones impels me hence. Farewell! 
 
  
With these words Hildur vanished from the sight of the astonished people, 
and was never seen again. But our friend the herdsman, leaving the service 
of the farmer, built a farm for himself, and prospered, and became one of 
the chief men in the country, and always ascribed, with grateful thanks, 
his prosperity to Hildur, Queen of the Elves.