Old Father   
 Once upon a time, when Brahmadatta was King of Benares, there was in a 
family of a certain village of Kasi an only son named Vasitthaka. This man 
supported his parents, and after his mother's death, he supported his 
father as has been described in the introduction. But there is this 
difference. When the woman [Vasitthaka's wife] said, "Look there! That is 
your father's doing! I am constantly begging him not to do this and that, 
and he only gets angry!" she went on, "My lord, your father is fierce and 
violent, forever picking quarrels. A decrepit old man like that, tormented 
with disease, is bound to die soon; and I can't live in the same house 
with him. He will die of himself before many days are out. Well, take him 
to a cemetery, and dig a pit, throw him in, and break his head with the 
spade; and when he is dead, shovel the earth upon him, and leave him 
there." 
 At last, by dint of this dinning in his ears, said he, "Wife, to kill a 
man is a serious matter. How can I do it?" 
 "I will tell you of a way," quoth she. 
 "Say on, then." 
 "Well, my lord, at break of day, go to the place where your father 
sleeps. Tell him very loud, that all may hear, that a debtor of his is in 
a certain village, that you went and he would not pay you, and that if he 
dies the man will never pay at all. And say that you will both drive there 
together in the morning. Then at the appointed time get up, and put the 
animals to the cart, and take him in it to the cemetery. When you get 
there, bury him in a pit, make a noise as if you had been robbed, wound 
and wash your head, and return." 
 "Yes, that plan will do," said Vasitthaka. He agreed to her proposal, 
and got the cart ready for the journey. 
 Now the man had a son, a lad of seven years, but wise and clever. The 
lad overheard what his mother said. "My mother," thought he, "is a wicked 
woman, and is trying to persuade father to murder his father. I will 
prevent my father from doing this murder." He ran quickly, and lay down 
beside his grandsire. 
 Vasitthaka, at the time suggested by the wife, prepared the cart. 
"Come, father, let us get that debt!" said he, and placed his father in 
the cart.  
 But the boy got in first of all. Vasitthaka could not prevent him, so 
he took him to the cemetery with them. Then, placing his father and his 
son together in a place apart, with the cart, he got down, took spade and 
basket, and in a spot where he was hidden from them began to dig a square 
hole. The boy got down and followed him, and as though ignorant what was 
afoot, opened a conversation by repeating the first stanza: 
 No bulbs are here, no herbs for cooking meat, 
No cat-mint, nor no other plant to eat. 
Than father, why this pit, if need be none, 
Delve in Death's acre mid the woods alone? 
 This his father answered by repeating the second stanza: 
 Thy grandsire, son, is very weak and old, 
Oppressed by pain from ailments manifold. 
Him will I bury in a pit today. 
In such a life I could not wish him stay. 
 Hearing this, the boy answered by repeating a half stanza: 
 Thou has done sinfully in wishing this, 
And for the deed, a cruel deed it is. 
 With these words, he caught the spade from his father's hands, and at 
no great distance began to dig another pit. His father approaching asked 
why he dug that pit, to whom he made reply by finishing the third 
stanza: 
 I too, when thou art aged, father mine, 
Will treat my father as thou treatest thine; 
Following the custom of the family 
Deep in a pit I too will bury thee. 
 To this the father replied by repeating the fourth stanza: 
 What a harsh saying for a boy to say, 
And to upbraid a father in this way! 
To think that my own son would rail at me, 
And to his truest friend unkind should be! 
 When the father had thus spoken, the wise lad recited three stanzas, 
one by way of answer, and two as an holy hymn: 
 I am not harsh, my father, nor unkind, 
Nay, I regard thee with a friendly mind. 
But this thou dost, this act of sin, thy son 
Will have no strength to undo again, once done. 
 Whoso, Vasittha, hurts with ill intent 
His mother or his father, innocent, 
He, when the body is dissolved, shall be 
In hell for his next life undoubtedly. 
 Whoso with meat and drink, Vasittha, shall 
His mother or his father feed withal, 
He, when the body is dissolved, shall be 
In heaven for his next life undoubtedly. 
 The father, after hearing his son thus discourse, repeated the eighth 
stanza: 
 Thou art no heartless ingrate, son, I see, 
But kindly hearted, O my son to me. 
'Twas in obedience to thy mother's word 
I thought to do this horrid deed abhorred. 
 Said the lad, when he heard this, "Father, women, when a wrong 
is done and they are not rebuked, again and again commit sin. You must 
bend my mother, that she may never again do such a deed as this." And he 
repeated the ninth stanza: 
 That wife of yours, that ill-conditioned dame, 
My mother, she that brought me forth, that same, 
Let us from out our dwelling far expel, 
Lest she work other woe on thee as well. 
 Hearing the words of his wise son, well pleased was Vasitthaka, and 
saying, "Let us go, my son!" he seated himself in the cart with son and 
father. 
 Now the woman too, this sinner, was happy at heart; for, thought she, 
this ill-luck is out of the house now. She plastered the place with wet 
cow dung, and cooked a mess of rice porridge. But as she sat watching the 
road by which they would return, she espied them coming, "There he is, 
back with old ill-luck again!" thought she, much in anger. "Fie, 
good-for-nothing! cried she. "What, bring back the ill-luck you took away 
with you!" 
 Vasitthaka said not a word, but unyoked the cart. Then said he, 
"Wretch, what is that you say?" He gave her a sound drubbing, and bundled 
her head over heels out of doors, bidding her never darken his door again. 
Then he bathed his father and his son, and took a bath himself, and the 
three of them ate the rice porridge. The sinful woman dwelt for a few days 
in another house. 
 Then the son said to his father, "Father, for all this, my mother does 
not understand. Now let us try to vex her. You give out that in such and 
such a village lives a niece of yours, who will attend upon your father 
and your son and you. So you will go and fetch her. Then take flowers and 
perfumes, and get into your cart, and ride about the country all day, 
returning in the evening." 
 And so he did. The women in the neighbor's family told his wife this. 
"Have you heard," said they, "that your husband has gone to get another 
wife in such a place?" 
 "Ah, then I am undone!" quoth she, "and there is no place for me 
left." 
 But she would inquire of her son. So quickly she came to him, and fell 
at his feet, crying, "Save thee, I have no other refuge! Henceforward I 
will tend your father and grandsire as I would tend a beauteous shrine! 
Give me entrance into this house once more!" 
 "Yes, mother," replied the lad, "if you do no more as you did, I will. 
Be of good cheer!" And at his father's coming he repeated the tenth 
stanza: 
 That wife of yours, that ill-conditioned dame, 
My mother, she that brought me forth, that same, 
Like a tamed elephant, in full control, 
Let her return again, that sinful soul. 
 So said he to his father, and then went and summoned his mother. She, 
being reconciled to her husband and her husband's father, was 
thenceforward tamed, and endued with righteousness, and watched over her 
husband and his father and her son. And these two, steadfastly following 
their son's advice, gave alms and did good deeds, and became destined to 
join the hosts of heaven.