Once upon a time the devil was seized with a desire to marry. He
therefore left hell, took the form of a handsome young man, and built a
fine large house. When it was completed and furnished in the most
fashionable style he introduced himself to a family where there were three
pretty daughters, and paid his addresses to the eldest of them. The
handsome man pleased the maiden, her parents were glad to see a daughter
so well provided for, and it was not long before the wedding was
celebrated. 
 When he had taken his bride home, he presented her with a very
tastefully arranged bouquet, led her through all the rooms of the house,
and finally to a closed door. "The whole house is at your disposal," said
he, "only I must request one thing of you; that is, that you do not on any
account open this door." 
 Of course the young wife promised faithfully; but equally, of course,
she could scarcely wait for the moment to come when she might break her
promise. When the devil had left the house the next morning, under
pretence of going hunting, she ran hastily to the forbidden door, opened
it, and saw a terrible abyss full of fire that shot up towards her, and
singed the flowers on her bosom. When her husband came home and asked her
whether she had kept her promise, she unhesitatingly said "Yes." But he
saw by the flowers that she was telling a lie, and said, "Now I will not
put your curiosity to the test any longer. Come with me. I will show you
myself what is behind the door." Thereupon he led her to the door, opened
it, gave her such a push that she fell down into hell, and shut the door
again. 
 A few months after he wooed the next sister for his wife, and won her;
but with her everything that had happened with the first wife was exactly
repeated. 
 Finally he courted the third sister. She was a prudent maiden, and said
to herself, "He has certainly murdered my two sisters; but then it is a
splendid match for me, so I will try and see whether I cannot be more
fortunate than they." And accordingly she consented. After the wedding the
bridegroom gave her a beautiful bouquet, but forbade her, also, to open
the door which he pointed out. 
 Not a whit less curious than her sisters, she, too, opened the
forbidden door when the devil had gone hunting, but she had previously put
her flowers in water. Then she saw behind the door the fatal abyss and her
sisters therein. "Ah!" she exclaimed, "poor creature that I am; I thought
I had married an ordinary man, and instead of that he is the devil! How
can I get away from him?" She carefully pulled her two sisters out of hell
and hid them. When the devil came home he immediately looked at the
bouquet, which she again wore on her bosom, and when he found the flowers
so fresh he asked no questions; but reassured as to his secret, he now,
for the first time, really loved her. 
 After a few days she asked him if he would carry three chests for her
to her parents' house, without putting them down or resting on the way.
"But," she added, "you must keep your word, for I shall be watching
you." 
 The devil promised to do exactly as she wished. So the next morning she
put one of her sisters in a chest, and laid it on her husband's shoulders.
The devil, who is very strong, but also very lazy and unaccustomed to
work, soon got tired of carrying the heavy chest, and wanted to rest
before he was out of the street on which he lived; but his wife called out
to him, "Don't put it down; I see you!" 
 The devil went reluctantly on with the chest until he had turned the
corner, and then said to himself, "She cannot see me here; I will rest a
little." 
 But scarcely had he begun to put the chest down when the sister inside
cried out, "Don't put it down; I see you still!" Cursing, he dragged the
chest on into another street, and was going to lay it down on a doorstep,
but he again heard the voice, "Don't lay it down, you rascal; I see you
still!" 
 "What kind of eyes must my wife have," he thought, "to see around
corners as well as straight ahead, and through walls as if they were made
of glass!" and thus thinking he arrived, all in a perspiration and quite
tired out, at the house of his mother-in-law, to whom he hastily delivered
the chest, and then hurried home to strengthen himself with a good
breakfast. 
 The same thing was repeated the next day with the second chest. On the
third day she herself was to be taken home in the chest. She therefore
prepared a figure which she dressed in her own clothes, and placed on the
balcony, under the pretext of being able to watch him better; slipped
quickly into the chest, and had the maid put it on the devil's back. "The
deuce!" said he; "this chest is a great deal heavier than the others; and
today, when she is sitting on the balcony, I shall have so much the less
chance to rest." So by dint of the greatest exertions he carried it,
without stopping, to his mother-in-law, and then hastened home to
breakfast, scolding, and with his back almost broken. 
 But quite contrary to custom, his wife did not come out to meet him,
and there was no breakfast ready. "Margerita, where are you?" he cried,
but received no answer. As he was running through the corridors, he at
length looked out of a window and saw the figure on the balcony.
"Margerita, have you gone to sleep? Come down. I am as tired as a dog, and
as hungry as a wolf." But there was no reply. "If you do not come down
instantly I will go up and bring you down," he cried, angrily; but
Margerita did not stir. Enraged, he hastened up to the balcony, and gave
her such a box on the ear that her head flew off, and he saw that the head
was nothing but a milliner's form, and the body, a bundle of rags. Raging,
he rushed down and rummaged through the whole house, but in vain; he found
only his wife's empty jewel box. "Ha!" he cried; "she has been stolen from
me and her jewels, too!" and he immediately ran to inform her parents of
the misfortune. But when he came near the house, to his great surprise he
saw on the balcony above the door all three sisters, his wives, who were
looking down on him with scornful laughter. 
 Three wives at once terrified the devil so much that he took his flight
with all possible speed. 
 Since that time he has lost his taste for marrying.