Version 2 
 Once on a time there was a boy named Jack, who set out to seek his
fortune. He had not gone but a little way when he came to a horse. 
 The horse said, "Where are you going, Jack?" 
 He said, "I'm going to seek my fortune. Won't you go along too?" 
 "Don't know, guess I will." So they walked along together. 
 By and by they came to a cow. The cow said, "Where are you going,
Jack?" 
 He said, "I'm going to seek my fortune. Won't you go along too?" 
 "Don't know, guess I will." So they walked along together. 
 By and by they came to a ram. The ram said, "Where are you going,
Jack?" 
 He said, "I'm going to seek my fortune. Won't you go along too?" 
 "Don't know, guess I will." So they walked along together. 
 By and by they came to a dog. The dog said, "Where are you going,
Jack?" 
 "I'm going to seek my fortune. Won't you go along too?" 
 "Don't know, guess I will." So they all walked along together. 
 By and by they came to a cat. The cat said, "Where are you going,
Jack?" 
 He said, "I'm going to seek my fortune. Won't you go along too?" 
 "Don't know, guess I will." So they all walked along together. 
 By and by they came to a rooster. The rooster said, "Where are you
going, Jack?" 
 "I'm going to seek my fortune. Won't you go along too?" 
 "Don't know, don't care if I do." So they all walked along
together. 
 They traveled along until it began to grow dark, and then they were
looking for a place to spend the night, when they saw a log cabin in the
edge of a woods. 
 Jack went up to the house and found the door unlocked, and went in.
After looking about he found a good bed upstairs and plenty of good food
in the cupboard. There was a fire on the hearth. As he could see no one
living there, after he had eaten a good supper and fed all the animals, he
began to make preparations for the night. 
 First he led the horse out into the stable, and fed him some hay, for
he found plenty of good hay on the mow. Then he took all the other animals
into the house, and he found the door closed into the locker, so he
stationed the dog under the table near the door, so that he mighty bite
anyone who might chance to enter the house. The cat lay down on the
hearth, and the rooster perched on a large crossbeam, and then he
stationed the cow at the foot of the stairs, and the ram at the top of the
stairs that led to the loft. Then he covered up the fire, put out the
light, and went to bed, and was soon fast asleep.  
 Now it happened that this valley was the home of two wicked robbers,
who had gone out during the day in search of plunder. 
 Late in the night Jack was awakened by a great noise, for the robbers
had returned and opened the door, expecting to find things as usual. They
were suddenly grabbed by the dog, who bit them furiously, barking all the
while. 
 At last they managed to escape from him, and started to the fireplace,
thinking to strike a light. One of the robbers tried to light a match by a
coal which he thought he saw shining in the ashes; but this was the cat's
eye, and as soon as she was molested she flew on them and scratched their
faces dreadfully, till they were glad to escape from the fireplace. 
 They went from the fireplace toward the stairs, but as they passed
under the rooster's perch he dropped  very disagreeable material 
(these words to be whispered) upon them. 
 The robbers groped their way through the dark to the foot of the
stairs, meaning to creep up to the bed and rest till morning, but just as
they reached the stairs they were suddenly caught on the horns of the cow,
and tossed up in the air. 
 The ram called out, "Toss 'em up to me!" 
 Before they lighted he caught them on his horns and tossed them up in
the air. And the cow called out, "Toss 'em down to me!" 
 Before they lighted she caught them on her horns and tossed them up in
the air. Then the ram called out, "Toss 'em up to me!" 
 And before they lighted he caught them on his horns, etc. (to be
repeated  ad libitum ). And so they tossed them back and forth until
they were all mangled and bloody. 
 At last they managed to escape from the cow's horns, and thought they
would crawl off to the barn and spend the rest of the night. As they
passed the dog in going to the door he gave them a parting snip, but they
escaped from him and found the way out to the barn. When they tried to
creep in at the door the horse began to kick them so dreadfully that they
had to give that up, and were only just able to creep off to a fence
corner, where they laid down and died. 
 As soon as Jack found that everything was quiet he went to sleep, and
slept soundly till morn, after he got up and dressed himself. By and by he
looked about and found there was a large bag of gold under his bed, which
had been stolen from time to time by the robbers. So Jack kept the gold,
was well provided for, and lived happily forever after with his faithful
animals.