Wen     There was once an old man who had a wen on
his right cheek.  This disfigurement caused him a good deal of annoyance,
and he had spent a considerable sum of money in trying to get rid of it.  
He took various medicines and applied many lotions, but instead of the wen
disappearing or even diminishing, it increased in size.  One night,
while the old man was returning home laden with firewood, he was overtaken
by a terrible thunderstorm, and was forced to seek shelter in a hollow
tree.  When the storm had abated, and just as he was about to proceed on
his journey, he was surprised to hear a sound of merriment close at hand.  
On peeping out from his place of retreat, he was amazed to see a number of
demons dancing and singing and drinking.  Their dancing was so strange
that the old man, forgetting caution, began to laugh, and eventually left
the tree in order that he might see the performance better.  As he stood
watching, he saw that a demon was dancing by himself, and, moreover, that
the chief of the company was none too pleased with his very clumsy antics.  
At length the leader of the demons said: "Enough!  Is there no one who can
dance better than this fellow?"  When the old man heard these words, it
seemed that his youth returned to him again, and having at one time been
an expert dancer, he offered to show his skill.  So the old man danced
before that strange gathering of demons, who congratulated him on his
performance, offered him a cup of sak, and begged that he would give them
the pleasure of several other dances.  The old man was extremely
gratified by the way he had been received, and when the chief of the
demons asked him to dance before them on the following night, he readily
complied.  "That is well," said the chief, "but you must leave some pledge
behind you.  I see that you have a wen on your right cheek, and that will
make an excellent pledge.  Allow me to take it off for you." Without
inflicting any pain, the chief removed the wen, and having accomplished
this extraordinary feat, he and his companions suddenly vanished.  The
old man, as he walked towards his home, kept on feeling his right cheek
with his hand, and could scarcely realize that after many years of
disfigurement he had at last the good fortune to lose his troublesome and
unsightly wen. At length he entered his humble abode, wife was none the
less pleased with what had taken place.  A wicked and cantankerous old
man lived next door to this good old couple. For many years he had been
afflicted with a wen on his left cheek, which had failed to yield to all
manner of medical treatment.  When he heard of his neighbor's good
fortune, he called upon him and listened to the strange adventures with
the demons.  The good old man told his neighbor where he might find the
hollow tree, and advised him to hide in it just before sunset.  The
wicked old man found the hollow tree and entered it.  He had not remained
concealed more than a few minutes when he rejoiced to see the demons.
Presently one of the company said: "The old man is a long time coming.  I
made sure he would keep his promise."  At these words the old man crept
out of his hiding-place, flourished his fan, and began to dance; but,
unfortunately, he knew nothing about dancing, and his extraordinary antics
caused the demons to express considerable dissatisfaction.  "You dance
extremely ill," said one of the company, "and the sooner you stop the
better we shall be pleased; but before you depart we will return the
pledge you left with us last night." Having uttered these words, the demon
flung the wen at the right cheek of the old man, where it remained firmly
fixed, and could not be removed.  So the wicked old man, who had tried to
deceive the demons, went away with a wen on either side of his face.