In a certain city there was a nobleman. He had been very wealthy, but
his goods were destroyed, and he became indigent, and in this condition he
died. 
 When his son came of full age, the mother said to him, "Son, I am now
approaching old age, but you are unable to provide for me by yourself.
Therefore you must take in marriage a woman from a suitable family." 
 He married, but his wife did not exert herself for his mother. To
counter this, the husband collected fragments of broken plates from the whole
village. These he put in a bag made of skin. Then he said, "When you come
near that woman, my wife, take this bag
from its box as though there were great wealth in it, shake it, then put
it away again." 
 The mother took her son's words to heart. She shook the skin bag as he
had told her to, so as to be noticed by his wife, and then carefully
replaced it in the box. From that day on the son's wife began to exert
herself for her
mother-in-law. During this time leprosy attacked the mother-in-law. 
 The son said, "Mother, place the skin bag near the place where you
sleep, then say to your relatives and to my wife, 'I have saved the
articles in this bag from the time I was very little until now, and for
the sole purpose of giving them, at the end of my life, to a person who
has most exerted herself for me.'" 
 Then the mother gathered together her relatives and her
daughter-in-law, and said to them what her son had proposed, that she
would give the bag of coins to the person who most exerted herself for
her. After this each one of them attended the leprous woman, and the son's
mind was put at ease. A little later the leprous woman died. 
 The son's wife stole the bag of coins and hid it. After the corpse was
buried, the son's wife took out the bag of coins.
Upon discovering that it contained only fragments of broken plates she was
greatly saddened. 
 At this time that woman's mother also arrived, and she noisily asked,
"Did my daughter receive the bag of coins?" Her daughter told her that she
had been cheated. She showed her the bag
of plate fragments, and they both wept. That woman, now angry with her
husband, separated from him, and returned to her own house.