One day Brer Fox heard Mr. Man coming down the big road in a one-horse
wagon carrying some chickens and some eggs and some butter to town. Brer
Fox heard him coming, he did, and what did he do but go and lay down in
the road in front of the wagon. Mr. Man, he drove along, he did, clucking
to the horse and humming to himself, and when they got almost up to Brer
Fox, the horse, he shied, he did, and Mr. Man, he took and hollered
"whoa!" and the horse, he took and whoaed. 
 Then Mr. Man, he looked down, and he saw Brer Fox lying out there on
the ground, just like he was cold and stiff, and when Mr. Man saw this, he
hollered out, "Heyo! There's the chap that's been nabbing up my chickens,
and somebody's done gone and shot off a gun at him, which I wish it had
been two guns -- that I do!" 
 With that Mr. Man drove off and left Brer Fox lying there. Then Brer
Fox, he got up and ran around through the woods and lay down in front of
Mr. Man again, and Mr. Man came driving along, and he saw Brer Fox, and he
said, "Heyo! You're the very chap that's been destroying my pigs.
Somebody's done gone and killed him, and I wish they'd have killed him a
long time ago." 
 Then Mr. Man, he drove on, and the wagon wheel came mighty near mashing
Brer Fox's nose. Yet, all the same, Brer Fox leaped up and ran around
ahead of Mr. Man and lay down in the road, and when Mr. Man came along,
there he was all stretched out like he was big enough to fill a two-bushel
basket, and he looked like he was dead enough to be skinned. 
 Mr. Man drove up, he did, and stopped. He looked down upon Brer Fox,
and then he looked all around to see what the occasion was and why the fox
was dead. 
 Mr. Man looked all around, he did, but he didn't see anything, and
neither did he hear anything. He sat there and studied, and by and by he
decided to see what had got into the fox family, and with that he got down
out of the wagon, and he felt Brer Fox's ears. Brer Fox's ears felt right
warm. Then he felt Brer Fox's neck. Brer Fox's neck felt right warm. Then
he felt Brer Fox's short ribs. Brer Fox's short ribs were sound. Then he
felt Brer Fox's limbs. Brer Fox's limbs were sound. Then he turned Brer
Fox over, and lo and behold, Brer Fox was right limber. 
 When Mr. Man saw this, he said to himself, "Heyo, here! How come? This
here chicken nabber looks like he's dead, but no bones are broken, and I
can't see any blood, and neither can I see any bruises; and more than
that, he is warm and limber. Something is wrong here for sure! This here
pig grabber  might  be dead, and then again, he might not be. Just to
make sure that he is, I'll give him a whack with my whip handle." 
 And with that, Mr. Man drew back and fetched Brer Fox a clip behind the
ears --  pow!  -- and the lick came so hard and it came so quick that
Brer Fox thought for sure that he was a goner. But before Mr. Man could
draw back and fetch him another wipe, Brer Fox scrambled to his feet, he
did, and did he make tracks away from there.