"One time," said Uncle Remus, sighing heavily and settling himself back in 
his seat with an air of melancholy resignation --" one time Brer Rabbit 
wuz gwine 'long down de road shakin' his big bushy tail, en feelin' des ez 
scrumpshus ez a bee-martin wid a fresh bug."   
Here the old man paused and glanced at the little boy, but it was evident 
that the youngster had become so accustomed to the marvelous developments 
of Uncle Remus's stories, that the extraordinary statement made no unusual 
impression upon him.   
Therefore the old man began again, and this time in a louder arid more 
insinuating tone: "One time ole man Rabbit, he wuz gwine 'long down de 
road shakin' his long, bushy tail, en feelin' mighty biggity."   
This was effective.   
"Great goodness, Uncle Remus!" exclaimed the little boy in open-eyed 
wonder, "everybody knows that rabbits haven't got long, bushy tails."   
The old man shifted his position in his chair and allowed his venerable 
head to drop forward until his whole appearance was suggestive of the 
deepest dejection; and this was intensified by a groan that seemed to be 
the result of great mental agony. Finally he spoke, but not as addressing 
himself to the little boy.   
"I notices dat dem fokes w'at makes a great 'miration 'bout w'at dey knows 
is des de fokes w'ich you can't put no 'pennunce in w'en de 'cashun come 
up. Yer one un urn now, en he done come en excuse me er 'lowin' dat 
rabbits is got long, bushy tails, w'ich goodness knows ef I'd a dremp' it, 
I'd a whirl in en on dremp it"   
"Well, but Uncle Remus, you said rabbits had long, bushy tails," replied 
the little boy. "Now you know you did."   
"Ef I ain't fergit it off'n my mine, I say dat ole Brer Rabbit wuz gwine 
down de big road shakin' his long, bushy tail. Dat w'at I say, en dat I 
stan's by."   
The little boy looked puzzled, but he didn't say anything. After a while 
the old man continued: "Now, den, ef dat's 'greed ter, I'm gwine on, en ef 
tain't 'greed ter, den I'm gwineter pick up my cane an look atter my own 
intrust. I go wuk lyin' roun' yer dat's des natally gittin' moldy."   
The little boy still remained quiet, and Uncle mus proceeded: "One day 
Brer Rabbit wuz gwine down de road shakin' his long, bushy tail, w'en who 
should he strike up wid but ole Brer Fox gwine amblin' long wid a big 
string er fish! W'en dey pass de time er day wid wunner nudder, Brer 
Rabbit, he open up de confab, he did, en he ax Brer Fox whar he git dat 
nice string er fish, en Brer Fox, he up'n 'spon' dat he kotch um, en Brer 
Rabbit, he saw whar'bouts, en Brer Fox, he say down at de babtizin' creek, 
en Brer Rabbit he ax how, kaze in dem days dey wuz monstus fon' er 
minners, en Brer Fox, he sot down on a log, he did, en he up'n tell Brer 
Rabbit dat all he gotter do fer ter git er big mess er minners is ter go 
ter de creek atter sun down, en drap his tail in de water en set dar twel 
daylight, en den draw up a whole armful er fishes, en dem w'at he don't 
want, he kin fling back. Right dar's whar Brer Rabbit drap his 
watermillion, kaze he tuck'n sot out dat night en went a fishin'. De 
wedder wuz sorter cole, en Brer Rabbit, he got 'im a bottle er dram en put 
out fer de creek, en w'en he git dar he pick out a good place, en he 
sorter squot down, he did, en let his tail hang in de water. He sot dar, 
en he sot dar, en he drunk his dram, en he think he gwineter freeze, but 
bimeby day come, en dar he wuz. He make a pull, en he feel like he comin' 
in two, en he fetch nudder jerk, en lo en beholes, whar wuz his tail?"   
There was a long pause.   
"Did it come off, Uncle Remus?" asked the little boy, presently.   
"She did dat!" replied the old man with unction. "She did dat, and dat 
w'at make all deze yer bob-tail rabbits w'at you see hoppin' en skaddlin' 
thoo de woods."   
"Are they all that way just becaue the old Rabbit lost his tail in the 
creek?" asked the little boy.   
"Dat's it, honey," replied the old man. "Dat's w'at dey tells me. Look 
like dey er bleedzd ter take atter der pa."