One time there was a boy named Tinktum Tidy, and this boy was mighty
smart. He was like a slick three-cent piece: little but old. I don't know
what they called him in those times, but in these days we'd call him a
runt, and laugh at him. Well, this boy had a head on him. He looked like
he was all dried up, but never mind that. Those who got ahead of him had
to get up long before day, and if they didn't take care, they'd find him
up before them. 
 One season, when the blackberries were ripe, he went around and told
the folks that if they'd take their baskets and their buckets and go out
and get the blackberries, he'd give them half of what they picked.  
 It was so seldom that the folks got a chance to make any extra money
that they were mighty glad to have the chance to pick blackberries. So
they all went out and picked and picked until they picked two wagonloads
of them. Well, this shrunk-up boy, who looked like he scarcely had any
sense, he divided fair, there are no two ways about that. He took half and
gave them their half back.  
 There was no disputing about it. But then when the folks got their
half, they asked themselves what they were going to do with them. They
wanted to sell them to Tinktum Tidy, but he said that he had more
blackberries than he knew what to do with. After a while the folks said
that if they couldn't sell their share of the blackberries, they might
just as well put them in Tinktum Tidy's pile, and that is what they did.
And then he took the two wagonloads to town and sold them for cash
money. 
 By and by some of the longer-headed folks sat down and got to studying
about it, and they asked themselves how come they got to go out and pick
blackberries for that little bit of a shrunk-up chap. They studied and
studied, but the more they studied, the more foolish they felt. 
 Well, the tale got out, and it traveled around and around until the
king got wind of it, and he took and sent for Tinktum Tidy. This made the
folks that picked the blackberries mighty glad, because they got the idea
that the king was going to put the little shrunk-up chap in the calaboose
for fooling them. But Tinktum Tidy wasn't scared. He wrapped up a change
of clothes in his handkerchief, and put out to where the king stayed. Some
of the folks went along to see what was going to come of the little
shrunk-up chap that had fooled them. 
 By and by they got to where the king lived, and Tinktum Tidy just
marched right in and told them that the king had sent for him. They took
him into a big room where there was a whole passel of other folks, and
told him to wait there until the king came. Everybody looked at him hard,
he was so shrunk-up and puny, and he looked right back at them, just like
he was someone of quality. After a while, here came the king. By the time
he got settled on the platform, his eye dropped on Tinktum Tidy, and he
asked what that runt was doing there. 
 They up and told the king that that was the chap who was making folks
pick so many blackberries. When the king heard this, he lay back and
laughed fit to kill himself. He called Tinktum Tidy up and asked him all
about how he was doing, and then he said, the king did, that Tinktum Tidy
must be mighty smart. But Tinktum tidy said that he wasn't the one who was
smart. It was the folks who picked the blackberries, because folks than
can pick so many in so little time must be smart. 
 Then king put his hand into his pocket and pulled out eleven grains of
corn. He said, "Take this corn and do what you please with it, but what I
want from it are eleven strong men to put in my army." 
 Tinktum Tidy took the corn and tied it up in one corner of his
handkerchief. He said, "Not counting hurricanes and high water, I'll be
back in a fortnight. If eleven strong men were as easy to pick as
blackberries, I'd send some other folks, but I'll have to go after these
men myself." 
 With that he made his bow, he did, and took his foot in his hand and
put out. He traveled all that day, and about night he come to a tavern,
and there he stopped. The man asked him where he came from, what his name
was, and where he was going. He said he came from Chuckerluckertown, and
he name was Tinktum Tidy, and he was going on a long journey.  
 When bedtime came, he called the man into the room and showed him the
corn. He said, "Here are the eleven grains of corn the that king gave me.
I'll lay it on the table. I'm afraid the big gander is going to eat
it." 
 The man said he would shut the door so the big gander couldn't get it.
Then they all went to bed. Tinktum Tidy waited until everybody was still,
and then he got up and dropped the corn through a crack in the floor. Then
he went to sleep. 
 The next morning he woke up early and alarmed the neighborhood. He
hollered out, "I told you so! I told you so! The big gander ate the eleven
grains of corn that the king gave me! The big gander ate the eleven grains
of corn that the king gave me!" 
 Tinktum Tidy hollered so loud and so long that he scared the man. Then
the man's old woman stuck her head out of the window and set up a squall.
She said, "Take the big gander and go away from here! Take him and
go!" 
 Tinktum Tidy took the big gander under his arm and went poling down the
big road. He traveled all that day until night, and he came to another
town, and he went and put up at the tavern.  
 When bedtime came, he tied the gander by the leg to the bedstead, and
then he called the man. "Here is the big gander that ate the eleven grains
of corn that the king gave me. I'll tie him here, because I'm afraid the
bah-bah black sheep will kill him." 
 The man said, "The black sheep can't get him here." 
 In the middle of the night Tinktum Tidy got up and broke the big
gander's neck and flung him out into the barnyard.  
 The next morning he got up early and began to holler. He said, "I told
you so! I told you so! Bah-bah black sheep has killed the big gander that
ate the eleven grains of corn that the king gave me!" 
 When the man heard him talk of the king, he got scared. It made him
shake in his shoes. He said, "Take bah-bah black sheep and go along! You
have fetched me bad luck!" 
 Then Tinktum Tidy fastened bah-bah black sheep with a rope and led him
off down the big road. By and by he came to where there was another town,
and he went and put up at the tavern.  
 When bedtime came, he called the man. He said, "Here is the bah-bah
black sheep that killed the big gander that ate the eleven grains of corn
that the king gave me. I'll tie him here to the bedstead because I'm
afraid the brindle cow will hook him." 
 The man said, "The brindle cow can't get him in here." 
 Between midnight and day, Tinktum Tidy got up and killed the black
sheep and put him in the lot with the brindle cow.  
 Then he got up early in the morning and began to holler. He said, "I
told you so! I told you so! The brindle cow has killed the bah-bah black
sheep that killed the big gander that ate the eleven grains of corn the
king gave me!" 
 This made the man feel scared. He said, "Take the brindle cow and
go!" 
 Tinktum Tidy led the brindle cow off down the road and made his way to
the next town. He got there by the time night came, and put up at the
tavern.  
 When bedtime came he took and called the man. He said, "Here is the
brindle cow that killed the bah-bah black sheep that killed the big gander
that ate the eleven grains of corn that the king gave me. I'll tie her
here by the chimney where the roan horse can't get her." 
 The man said, "I know mighty well the roan horse can't get her
here." 
 Just before day Tinktum Tidy took the brindle cow into the stable and
made away with her.  
 Then when daylight came he began to holler. He said, "I told you so! I
told you so! The roan horse has killed the brindle cow that killed the
bah-bah black sheep that killed the big gander that ate the eleven grains
of corn that the king gave me." 
 The man got scared when he heard the name of the king, and he said,
"Take the roan horse and go on where you are going!" 
 Tinktum Tidy got on the roan horse and went trotting down the big road.
He went on and went on, he did, until he came a place where he had to
cross a creek. Close by the road he saw an old man sitting. He looked at
the old man, and the old man looked an him. 
 By and by the old man said, "Howdy, son!" 
 Tinktum Tidy said, "Howdy, grandsir!" 
 The man said, "Son, come wipe my eyes!" 
 Tinktum Tidy said, "I'll wife them, grandsir, if it will do you any
good." Then he got down off the roan horse and wiped the old man's
eyes. 
 The old man said, "Thank you, son! Thank you!" 
 Tinktum Tidy said, "You are more than welcome, grandsir!" Then he got
on the roan hors and was about to ride off. 
 The old man said, "Son, come scratch my head!" 
 Tinktum Tidy said, "I'll scratch your head, grandsir, if it will do you
any good." Then he got down off the roan horse and scratched the old man's
head. 
 The old man said, "Thank you, son! Thank you!" 
 Tinktum Tidy said, "You are more than welcome, grandsir!" 
 Then he started to ride off again, but the old man said, "Son, come
help me up!" 
 Tinktum Tidy said, "I'll help you up, Grandsir, if it will do you any
good!" 
 So he went and helped him up, and it seemed like that when the old man
got on his feet he strength came back. He straightened up, he did, and
looked lots younger than what he had. 
 He said, "Son I have been sitting here going on ten years, and you the
only one that ever did what I asked him. Some laughed at me and some
cussed at me, but all went on their way, and everyone that passed fell in
with the eleven robbers that live down the road a piece, and got robbed.
Now beings you did what I asked you, I'm more than willing to do what you
ask of me." 
 With that Tinktum Tidy up and told the old man how come he was going
along there, and about how the kind wanted him to fetch back eleven strong
men to go into the army. 
 The man said, "Son, they are waiting for you right down the road. Keep
right on until you come to where there's a big white house. Ride around
that house seven times one way and seven time the other way, and say the
words that come into your head. Don't get scared, because I won't be so
might far off." 
 Tinktum Tidy road off down the road, he did, and went on until he came
to the big white house. Then he rode around it seven times one way and
seven times the other way. 
 He said, "This is the roan horse that killed the brindle cow that
killed the bah-bah black sheep that killed the big gander that ate the
eleven grains of corn that the king gave me. I want eleven strong men for
the king's army." 
 And the door of the big white house flew open, and eleven strong men
came marching out. By that time the old man had come up, and they asked
him what they were to do. 
 He said, "Mount your horses, sons, and go join the king's army!" 
 So they went, and the king was mighty proud. He looked around at
everybody and said, "I told you so! and He fixed it up so that Tinktum
Tidy had just as much as he could eat and mighty little work to do all the
rest of his days.