Did you done hear how come that old Sis Pig can see the wind? Well, to be 
sure, ain't you never hear that? Well, don't you take noticement, many and 
many a time, how unrestful, and 'stracted like, the pigs is, when the wind 
blows, and how they squeal, and run this yer way and that yer way, like 
they's 'stracted?   
Well, sah, all dat gwine on is along of the fact that they can see the 
wind. One time the old sow, she have five little pigs, -- four black and 
one white one.   
Now old Brer Wolf, he have a mighty good mouth for pig meat, and he go 
every night and walk round and round Miss Pig's house, but Sis Pig, she 
have the door lock fast.   
One night, he dress up just like he was a man, and he put a tall hat on he 
head, and shoes on he foots; he take a sack of corn, and he walk hard, and 
make a mighty fuss on the brick walk, right up to the door, and he knock 
loud on the door in a great haste, and Sis Pig, she say, "Who there?"   
And Brer Wolf say up, loud and powerful, Brer Wolf did, "Quit your 
fooling, old woman, I is the master, come for to put my mark on the new 
pigs; turn 'em loose here lively."   
And old Sis Pig, she mighty skeered, but she feared not to turn 'em out; 
so she crack the door, and turn out the four black pigs, but the little 
white pig, he am her eyeballs, the little white pig was, and when he turn 
come, she just shut the door and hold it fast.   
And Brer Wolf, he turn down the corn, and just pick up the four little 
pigs and tote 'em off home; but when they done gone, he mouth hone for the 
little pig, but Sis Pig, she keep him mighty close. One night Brer Wolf 
was wandering up and down the woods, and he meet up with old Satan, and he 
ax Brer Wolf, old Satan did, can he help him, and Brer Wolf he just tell 
him what on he mind, and old Satan told him to lead on to Miss Pig's 
house, and he help him out.   
So Brer Wolf he lead on, and directly there Sis Pig's house, and old 
Satan, he 'gin to puff and blow, and puff and blow, till Brer Wolf he that 
skeered, Brer Wolf is, that he hair fairly stand on end; and Miss Pig she 
done hear the mighty wind, and the house a-cracking, and they hear her 
inside down on her knees, just calling on God A'mighty for mercy; but old 
Satan, he puff and blow, and puff and blow, and the house crack and 
tremble, and he say, old Satan did, "You hear this yer mighty wind, Sis 
Pig, but if you look this yer way you can see it."   
And Sis Pig, she that skeered, she crack the door and look out, and there 
she see old Satan's breath, like red smoke, blowing on the house, and from 
that day the pigs can see the wind, and it look red, the wind look red, 
sah. How we know that? I tell you how we know that, sah: if anybody miss a 
pig and take the milk, then they can see the wind, and they done tell it 
was red.