The boggarts who are named in those awful threats by means of which the young are quelled into obedience to authority seem wellnigh innumerable. They include monsters of every sort and description. Amongst these imaginary monsters are:  
 
 Black Parr .  
 Bo-Chap .  
 Bo-Lo .  
 Bodach , for example:  "In ye binna quayet the Bodach ill cum doon the lum (chimney) an' tak ye."  
 Bugabo .  
 Jack-up-the-Orchard , for example: "If yo' dunna tak' car' I'll shewn yo' Jack-up-the Orchut."  
 Knocky-Boh , a bogie who taps behind the wainscot to frighten children. 
 Mumpoker , for example: "I'll zend the Mumpoker ater ye."  
 Old Scrat , for example: "By goy! but Auld Scratty'll git thi if thoo doesn't come in."  
 Pokey-Hokey .  
 Punky .  
 Tankerabogus , or  Tantarabobus , for example: "Now, Polly, yü've abin a bad, naughty maid, and ef yü  be sich a wicked cheel again, I'll zend vur Tankerabogus tü come and car yü away tü' is pittee-awl (pit-hole)."  
 Tod-Lowrie , for example: "Here's Tod-Lowrie coming."  
 Tom Dockin , a bogie having iron teeth, with which he devours bad children.  
 Tom-Poker , a bogie who inhabits dark closets, holes under stairs, unoccupied cock lofts, etc.  
 
 Churn-Milk Peg  and  Melsh Dick  are wood-demons supposed to protect soft, unripe nuts from being gathered by naughty children, the former being wont to beguile her leisure by smoking a pipe.  
The  Gooseberry Wife , in the guise of a large furry caterpillar, takes charge of the green gooseberries, for example: "If ye goos out in the gearden, the Gooseberry-Wife'll be sure to ketch ye."  
In the orchards  Awd Goggie  is guarding the unripe apples. 
 Grindylow ,  Jenny Green-Teeth , and  Nelly Long Arms  are the various names of a nymph or water-demon who is said to lurk at the bottom of deep pits, ponds, and wells. When children approach too near to the edge of her domain, she will stretch out her long, sinewy arms, seize them, and drag them under the water, holding them there till they are drowned. Her presence is indicated by a green scum on the surface of the water. If there is no pond or deep water for her near by, she has been supposed to take up a temporary lodging in the tops of trees, where after nightfall she may be heard moaning, in a voice like the sighing of the night-wind through the branches of trees.  
In some parts of the country, instead of  Jenny Green-Teeth , the boggart of the ponds is a masculine water demon called  Rawhead ,  Tommy Rawhead ,  Bloody-Bones , or  Rawhead and Bloody-bones , for example: "Keep away from the marl-pit or Rawhead and Bloody-Bones will  have you."   
Pictures such as these, when presented to the vivid imagination of children, doubtless gain rather than lose in lurid colouring and terrifying shape, and one shudders to think of the effect they must produce on impressionable minds, though in the majority of cases, no doubt, familiarity breeds a wholesome contempt.