A peasant in his field once heard a voice calling, "Help me! Help me!"
He looked around but saw no one. Finally he discovered that the voice was
coming from below, from beneath a large stone. Rolling it onto its side he
saw a hole where there was a large snake. It slithered out and was about
to tear the peasant to pieces. 
 "What!" said the peasant. "My reward for having freed you from your
prison is be torn to pieces?" 
 "Didn't you know," replied the snake, "that ingratitude is the world's
reward?" 
 "I do not believe that," said the peasant. "Come, let us go together to
a judge who will decide if you have the right to tear me to pieces." 
 So the went to seek a judge. After going a little way they came to a
tree onto which was tied an old horse. 
 "What are you doing there?" the peasant asked the horse. "Who tied you
here?" 
 "Oh," it said, "my master has gone to fetch a knacker who is to kill
me, for I am too old and week to pull the plow and other loads. When I was
young and strong, my master had only praise for me, but now he has no use
for me, and thus I will have to die." 
 "You see, peasant," said the snake, "there you have proof that
ingratitude is the world's reward. Now I am going to tear you to
pieces." 
 "No," said the peasant. "Let us go to another judge." 
 So they went further. A dog came ran up to them and sought the
peasant's protection against his master, who was about to shoot him. He
had now grown unable to watch over the house, and he told the peasant that
his master had held him dearly when he was young and could watch over the
house and the yard, but now that he was old and weak, he had acquired
another dog and wanted to shoot him. 
 "There you have the second proof that ingratitude is the world's
reward," said the snake. "You must admit that I have the right to tear you
apart." 
 But the peasant did not want to admit this, and while they were arguing
about it, a fox came their way and asked why they were quarreling. 
 "Wait," thought the peasant. "The fox is very sly. He could be our
judge." 
 He explained the case to him, who then took the peasant aside and said
to him, "If you will promise me two roosters then I'll free you from the
snake." 
 "They will be yours," said the peasant. 
 "Now," said the fox, "if I am to be your judge then I must see the hole
where the snake was caught. I cannot make a judgment until I have seen
it." 
 So they turned around and went back to the hole. Upon seeing it, the
fox said, "What? Such a large snake was caught in this small hole? I do
not believe it. It is entirely impossible! First you must convince me that
there is room for you there. Snake, crawl inside and show me that you
really were caught there." 
 The snake crawled inside, and he had scarcely done so when then fox
quickly rolled the stone back in place, capturing him again, however much
he cried out "Help me!" 
 The peasant was very happy and told the fox to come that evening to
fetch the roosters. He would leave the back gate to his yard open so he
could get in. 
 The fox came that evening when everyone was eating supper. He found the
back gate open and crept inside. But when he neared the chicken coop, the
chickens saw him and cried out. The peasant's wife heard the noise, went
to see what was wrong, and discovered the fox. 
 "Wait," she said, "I'll light the way home for you." She ran into the
kitchen, picked up a burning piece of wood, ran back to the chicken coop,
and hit the fox so long with it until his pelt was all burned up. Crying
out, he ran away. When he was halfway out he shouted "Ingratitude is still
the world's reward."