Otway in  A Tour in Connaught  also notes beliefs among the people 
of Inishbofin which I found flourishing over seventy years later in that 
primitive place.  It was firmly believed that the hills were full of 
fairies, "romping and carousing within," and that they carried off 
children and robbed milk and butter.  The sprites could exercise 
malignant power on infants especially before baptism, stealing the 
handsome ones and replacing them by puny withered changelings.  The only 
way to get rid of these was to set a pot on the fire and threaten to boil 
the fairy child, who then vanishes and the real child was brought back.  
Women who die in childbirth are believed to have been carried off to 
fairyland.
 
I met everywhere, from Ballycastle to Inishbofin, beliefs as to the 
existence of changelings.  Lady Wilde gives several from Inishark which 
seem to be good local tales.  [Note 1]  I must only give the shortest 
condensation of the beliefs.
  
 
 
 An old woman came into a house and looked at a child without saying 
"God bless you"; it got ill, a strange "wise woman" told the parents that 
it had been changed and directed them to get a bit of the old woman's 
cloak.  This made the elf sneeze and the true child was brought back.
 
 A man saw the fairies carrying off a boy, and, signing the cross, 
rescued the infant.  He found the mother weeping over the supposed 
corpse, which he made her throw into the fire, where it came to life and 
flew up the chimney.  He then gave her the real baby.
 
 A man, whose young wife had long been childless, taunted her, and she 
soon after bore a lovely boy.  One day to his horror it suddenly grew a 
long beard, and he beat his wife, at whose screams two red-capped women 
came and beat him till he asked pardon.  The real child sent a tuft of 
rushes to the mother, and she was able to enter the fairy palace.  An old 
woman brought her to the king and said she was the nurse of his own son.  
He restored her own child and said the man who beat her was a fairy 
disguised as her husband.  She invoked God's name and fell senseless, 
eventually recovering and returning home to find she had been three years 
absent.  She found that her husband had detected the changeling and put 
it on the fire, when it shrieked and flew up the chimney.
 
 Mary Callan of Shark while sitting alone with her newborn child was 
wrapped in a cloak by two men and carried away to the Fairy Hall.  She 
touched her eye with the fairies' ointment and saw a crowd of her 
neighbors' supposed-dead children who told her that they could not return 
till Doomsday.  One also told her that the men were waiting to steal her 
child till the candle she had lit should go out, and bade her tell his 
mother that he was alive.  He gave her a leaf to crush when in trouble, 
and she found herself outside of the Hill, returning home, to find her 
child dying, she crushed the leaf and the infant recovered.  The leaf was 
put into an amulet.  
 
 A changeling, found playing pipes behind a tub of meal, was put on a 
shovel over the fire and vanished.