One day Nasreddin Hodja went to market, taking his son with him. There he 
bought a donkey, and on the way home he let his son ride while he himself 
walked alongside on foot.    
After they had gone some distance they came upon some people who began 
talking about the pair. "The world is getting crazier and crazier," they 
said. "That lout of a son is sitting there at ease on the donkey, making 
his old father walk alongside dripping with sweat."    
Nasreddin Hodja heard this comment and had his son climb down, and he 
himself took a seat on the donkey's back. "Now the people will be 
satisfied," he murmured.    
 Soon they came upon another group who likewise were expressing their 
thoughts about Nasreddin and his donkey, and indeed, loudly enough that 
the Hodja could hear them. "Have you ever seen anything like that? That 
must be an unnatural father who makes his poor boy run on foot while 
he himself rides proudly along on the donkey!"    
The Hodja momentarily halted the donkey. "Climb up here with me!" he said 
to his son.    
A short distance later they came upon another party, who likewise 
expressed their opinion clearly. "Such animal abuse! Isn't that shameless, 
for a cleric to torment such a poor donkey! Couldn't the two of you use 
your own legs and give the donkey a little rest?"    
The Hodja stopped once again. "Let's climb off!" he said to his son.   
They both dismounted and walked along on foot beside the donkey. But they 
had not gone far when they came upon another group of people who also had 
something to say about them. They heaped ridicule upon them:   
 
"Such a cheapskate! It's just like him to buy a donkey and is then too 
stingy to use the animal."    
"He must be afraid that he will rub the fur off its body."   
"Which of the three is the greatest donkey?"    
"They just might as well carry the donkey home."  
 
No sooner said than done! Nasreddin Hodja followed this advice.    
As soon as the people had gone on their way he said to his son, "If you 
ever should come into the possession of a donkey, never trim its tail in 
the presence of other people. Some will say that you have cut off too 
much, and others that you have cut off too little. If you want to please 
everyone, in the end your donkey will have no tail at all."