A woman had no children. One day she heard one of her neighbors say that one could have children by planting peas in soil prepared in a certain way.  
"If I tried," she said to herself, "maybe I could get one! I'll plant a bushel of peas."  
She dug a patch in her garden and planted the peas in it. She watered them every day until she saw thousands of little children's heads appearing above the ground. The next day little boys, at most half an inch tall, were running around. The peasant woman was embarrassed. She decided to go see a fairy, her godmother, to ask for her advice.  
The fairy took all the children except one and turned them into elves who flew off in all directions. This is why there are so many goblins, gremlins, sprites, and imps. They are jealous of not being human and thus have no greater pleasure than to mislead travelers and play all kinds of tricks on them.  
The little child kept was called Jean des Pois Verts [Jean of the Green Peas]. He always remained very small. The fairy presented him with a carriage and magnificent clothes.  
The carriage was made of a ladybug wing; the horses were two dragonflies; the driver, a little wasp; and the footmen, two black ants. His dress coat was a spider's web, and his garters were two strands of gossamer.  
 He was living happily with his mother when thieves attacked the house. They were about to kill him when their chief stopped them, telling them that he would be useful to them in a burglary that he was planning. They let Jean live, but he was taken prisoner.  
The brigands then went to plunder a church. The door was locked. Jean was forced to enter through the keyhole and pull back the bolts. The bandits grabbed the gold and precious items and fled into the countryside. Jean des Pois Verts was placed in the chief's pocket, who did not worry about him any longer.  
The child sneaked out, hid in the undergrowth, and kept his eye on the thieves. He watched them deposit their loot in a cave, and then set out again for a new expedition.  
Jean des Pois Verts entered the cave and carried away all the riches. Before long he arrived at his house. His mother opened the door and received her son with joy. They were now rich and and led happy lives.  
When Jean des Pois Verts died, the fairy carried him to heaven on a thistle blossom.