Once there lived in a barrio an old beggar couple. They had a son 
named
Juan, and a daughter Maria. The proceeds from their begging were 
hardly
enough to support the family. One day, after the old man had 
returned
home from town, he ordered his wife to cook the rice that had been
given him. The old woman obeyed him. When he saw that the rice was
not enough for him and his wife and children, he angrily said to 
her,
"From now on, don't let me see our children in this house. Chase 
them as far as you can, and let them find their own food."   
The old mother wept when she heard the words of her cruel husband. 
She did not want
to be separated from her children; but she feared that she would 
be whipped if she kept them, so she obeyed the cruel order. At first
the poor children did not want to go away; but, when they saw that
their bad father was going to kick them, they ran off crying.   
Soon the children came to a wild forest. "Maria, what will become 
of us here?" said Juan.  
"I am very hungry," said the little girl.   
"I don't think that I can get you any food in this wilderness," 
said the kind brother, "but let me see!" He then looked around. By good
luck he found a guava tree with one small fruit on it. He 
immediately climbed up for the guava, and gave it to his hungry sister. Then 
the two children resumed their journey.  
As they were walking along, Maria found a hen's egg on the grass. 
She picked it up and carried it along with her in her dirty ragged
skirt. At last they saw a very small hut roofed with dry talahib
(coarse, long grass). An old woman in the hut welcomed them, and 
asked them where they were going. After Juan had told her their story, 
she invited the tired children to stay in the hut with her. She 
promised that she would treat them as her little son and daughter.   
From that time on, Juan and Maria lived with the kind old woman. 
Juan grew to be a strong fine man, and Maria became a beautiful young woman. 
Juan spent almost all his time hunting in the mountains and woods.  
One morning he caught a black deer. While he was taking the animal
home, the deer said to him, "Juan, as soon as you reach your home,
kill me, eat my flesh, and put my hide in your trunk. After three 
days open your trunk, and you will see something astonishing."   
When Juan reached home, he did as the deer had told him to do. On 
the third day he found in the trunk golden armor. He was greatly delighted 
by the precious gift.   
Maria had not been living long with the old woman when she found
that the egg had hatched into a chick, which soon grew into a fine
fighting cock. One morning the cock crowed, "Tok-to-ko-kok! Take 
me to the cockpit. I'll surely win!"   
Maria told the old woman what the cock had said, and the next Sunday Juan took the fighting cock to the cockpit. There the rooster was victorious, and won much money for Juan.   
One day Juan heard that a tournament would be held in front of the
king's palace. The winner of the contest was to become the husband 
of the princess, and would inherit the throne. Juan quickly put on 
his golden armor, and hastened to the palace to try his skill. He 
defeated all his opponents. The next day his bridal ceremony was 
celebrated, and the crown was placed on his head. That very day he ascended 
the throne to rule over the kingdom.   
Although Juan was now king, he was not proud. 
He and the queen visited Maria to get her to live in the
palace; but the old woman would not allow her to go with her 
brother, as she had no other companion in the hut.  
One day a prince was lost in the forest. He happened to come 
across the hut in which Maria was living. He fell in love with her, and
wanted to marry her. As the old woman offered no objections to the
proposal of the prince, the following day Maria became a queen, 
just as her brother had become king.   
Although the parents of Juan and Maria
had been very cruel, yet the king and queen did not forget them. 
The brother and sister visited their father and mother, whom they 
found in the most wretched condition. When the father saw that his children 
had become king and queen, he wept greatly for his former cruelty to 
them.