A king had two sons; of these, one was cunning and unjust, the other, just 
and gentle.   
After the death of the father the elder son said to the younger, "Depart; 
I will not live with you any longer. Here are three hundred ducats and a 
horse: this is your portion of our father's property. Take it, for I owe 
you nothing more than this."   
The younger son took the money and the horse which were offered him, and 
said, "Thank God! See only how much of the kingdom has fallen to me!"   
Some time afterwards the two brothers, both of whom were riding, met by 
chance in a road. The younger brother greeted the elder one, saying, "God 
help thee, brother!"   
And the elder answered, "Why do you speak always about God? Nowadays 
injustice is better than justice."   
The younger brother, however, said to him, "I will wager with you that 
injustice is not, as you say, better than justice."   
So they betted one hundred golden zechins, and it was arranged that they 
should leave the decision to the first man they met in the road. Riding 
together a little farther they met with Satan, who had disguised himself 
as a monk, and they asked him to decide which was better, justice or 
injustice?   
Satan answered, "Injustice!" And the good brother paid the bad one the 
hundred golden zechins which he had wagered.   
Then they betted for another hundred zechins, and again a third time for a 
third hundred, and each time Satan -- who managed to disguise himself in 
different ways and meet them -- decided that injustice was better than 
justice. Thus the younger brother lost all his money, and his horse into 
the bargain.   
Then he said, "Thank God! I have no more money, but I have eyes, and I 
wager my eyes that justice is better than injustice."   
Thereupon the unjust brother, without waiting for any one's decision, drew 
his knife and cut both his brother's eyes out, saying, "Now you have no 
eyes, let justice help you."   
But the younger brother in his trouble only thanked God and said, "I have 
lost my eyes for the sake of God's justice, but I pray you, my brother, 
give me a little water in some vessel to wash my wounds and wet my mouth, 
and bring me away from this place to the pine tree just about the spring, 
before you leave me."   
The unjust brother did so, gave him water, and left him alone under the 
pine tree near the spring of water. There the unfortunate remained, 
sitting on the ground.   
Late, however, in the night, some fairies came to the spring to bathe, and 
one of them came to the spring to bathe, and one of them said to the 
others, "Do you know, my sisters, that the king's daughter has got the 
leprosy? The king has summoned all the physicians, but no one can possibly 
help her. But if the king only knew, he would take a little of this water 
in which we are bathing, and wash his daughter therewith; and then in a 
day and a night she would recover completely from her leprosy. Just as any 
one deaf, or dumb, or blind, could be cured by this same water."   
Then, as the cocks began to crow, the fairies hurried away. As soon as 
they were gone, the unfortunate man felt his way slowly with his 
outstretched hands till he came to the spring of water. There he bathed 
his eyes, and in an instant recovered his sight.   
After that he filled the vessel with water, and hurried away to the king, 
whose daughter was leprous, and said to the servants, "I am come to cure 
the king's daughter, if he will only let me try. I guarantee that she will 
become healthy in a day and night."   
When the king heard that, he ordered him to be led into the room where the 
girl was, and made her immediately bathe in the water. After a day and a 
night the girl came out pure and healthy. Then the king was greatly 
pleased, and gave the young prince the half of his kingdom, and also his 
daughter for a wife, so that he became the king's son-in-law, and the 
first man after him in the kingdom.   
The tidings of this great event spread all over the world, and so came to 
the ears of the unjust brother. He guessed directly that his blind brother 
must have met with good fortune under the pine tree, so he went himself to 
try to find it also. He carried with him a vessel full of water, and then 
carved out his own eyes with his knife.   
When it was dark the fairies came again, and, as they bathed, spoke about 
the recovery of the king's daughter. "It cannot be otherwise," they said; 
"someone must have been listening to our last conversation here. Perhaps 
someone is listening now. Let us see."   
So they searched all around, and when they came to the pine tree they 
found there the unjust brother who had come to seek after good fortune, 
and who declared always that injustice was better than justice. They 
immediately caught him, and tore him into four parts. And so, at the last, 
his wickedness did not help him, and he found to his cost that justice is 
better than injustice.