In olden times in some distant country the young folk had come together
and decided to get rid of the old men. They did not want their wisdom and
their advice, for they were just as clever. They had lived their lives,
and that was an end of it. 
 Over that country there ruled a young king who gladly accepted the
decision of the young people and gave strict orders that all the old men
should be killed. The orders were carried out with the utmost severity.
But there lived among these people a young man who had not the heart to
kill his old father. Frightened at the consequences of disobeying the
king's orders, he took his old father and hid him in the cellar under the
house. There he fed him and looked after him, carefully visiting him only
by night. 
 For a while things went well. The country was prosperous, the earth
yielded its produce, vineyards flourished, and the orchards were laden
with fruit. But things did not remain in that state of prosperity. A
summer came. There was such drought that for months not a drop of rain
fell. The crops were burnt off the face of the earth. The trees withered,
and there was dearth and famine in the land. This was followed by a severe
winter so cold as he people had never experienced in their life. Heavy
snow fell and covered the fields. No food was left, nay not even seed for
sowing the field in the springtime. Starvation had set in, and the people
did not know what to do, for they saw death before their eyes, for
themselves and for their starved cattle. 
 One night, when the son came as usual to his father, he could not bring
more than a morsel of food. His father asked him what was the matter and
why he looked so sad. The son told him what had happened. They had no seed
to sow and did not know where to get any. There was nothing for them but
rank starvation. 
 They were all at their wits' end and had nowhere to turn for counsel or
advice how to save themselves, and the father said, "My son, fear not.
Take a plow and plow up the road in front of the house and the adjoining
road, and do not reply to any questions." 
 The son did as his father had bidden. The earth which had become moist
and soft through the melting snow was easily plowed up, when lo! to their
great amazement, when the time came all kinds of grains seemed to sprout
and to grow up from the ground which had been tilled. Maize and corn and
wheat were all growing up, and -- as the weather was favorable -- yielded
a very good crop. 
 His neighbors were greatly astonished at what they saw, and went and
told the king what had happened. 
 The king called the young man and said to him, "This doing is not of
your own wisdom. No doubt your father has told you, whom you have kept
alive. Speak the truth and I will spare your life." 
 The young man owned that his father had advised him to plow up the
thoroughfares and roads close to their house. The young king then sent for
the old man and asked him what was the meaning of his advice. 
 The old man replied, "All throughout the year carts laden with all
manner of seeds and corn are passing to and fro. Some of the corn falls to
the ground, and not a few of the seeds fall on the ground and are trodden
into the earth by the passers-by. Left in that state they usually rot, but
if the ground is plowed up, and is moist and favorable for the growth,
no one passing over that part of the ground, some of the corn has a chance
of growing. It is upon that chance that I relied, and thus it has come to
pass that we have now a rich crop, not only for our necessities, but also
to provide you all with enough necessary seed for your own fields in the
future." 
 When the king and the young people heard what the old man had to tell
and saw his deep wisdom, they recognized their folly, they rescinded that
resolution, and decided henceforth to allow the old people to live in
peace and honor. 
 And henceforth the old men are allowed to live to the end of their
days.