Once upon a time there was a king who had a beautiful queen. On the
first night of their marriage, nothing was written on their bed when they
retired, but when they got up the next day, they read there that they
would have no children. The king was very sad about this, and the queen
even more so. She found it most unfortunate that there would be no heir
for their kingdom. 
 One day, while deep in thought, she wandered to a remote spot. There
she met an old woman who asked her why she was so sad. The queen looked up
and said, "Oh, telling you will do no good. You can't help me." 
 "But perhaps I can," said the old woman, and asked the queen to tell
her story. So the queen agreed, and told how on their wedding night a
message had appeared on their bed that they would have no children. This
was why she was so sad. The old woman told her that she could help her
have children. That evening at sunset she should place a platter upside
down in the northwest corner of the garden. The next morning at sunrise
she should take it away. Beneath it she would find two roses, a red one
and a white one. "Take the red one and eat it, and you shall have a boy;
take the white one and it will be a girl. But do not eat them both," said
the old woman. 
 The queen returned home and did what the old woman had told her to do.
The next morning, just as the sun was coming up, she went to the garden
and picked up the platter. There were two roses, a red one and a white
one. Now she did not know which of the two she should take. If it were the
red one, she would have a boy, and he might have to go to war and be
killed, and then again she would have no child. So she decided to take the
white one; then it would be a girl who would stay at home with her, and
then get married and become queen in another kingdom. Thus she picked up
the white rose and ate it. But it tasted so good that she picked up the
red rose and ate it as well. 
 Now it so happened that at this time the king was away at war. When the
queen noticed that she was pregnant she wrote to him to let him know, and
he was very pleased. When the time for her delivery came, she gave birth
to a lindorm. As soon as he was born, he crawled under the bed in the
bedroom, and stayed there. Sometime later a letter arrived from the king
announcing that he soon would return home. When his carriage pulled up in
front of the castle and the queen came out to receive him, the lindorm
came too and wanted to greet him. He jumped up into the carriage, calling
out, "Welcome home, father!" 
 "What!," said the king. "Am I your father?" 
 "Yes, and if you will not be my father, I shall destroy you and the
castle as well!" 
 The king had to agree. They went into the castle together, and the
queen had to confess what had happened between her and the old woman. Some
days later the council and all the important people in the kingdom
assembled to welcome the king back home and to congratulate him on the
victory over his enemies. The lindorm came as well and said, "Father, it
is time for me to get married!" 
 "What are you thinking? Who would have you?" said the king. 
 "If you do not find a wife for me, be she young or old, large or small,
rich or poor, then I shall destroy you and the entire castle as well." 
 So the king wrote to all the kingdoms, asking if someone would not
marry his son. A beautiful princess responded, but it seemed strange to
her that she was not allowed to see her future husband before entering the
hall where the wedding was to take place. Only then did the lindorm make
his appearance, taking his place beside her. The wedding day came to an
end, and it was time for them to retire to the bedroom. They were scarcely
inside, when he ate her alive. 
 Sometime later, the king's birthday arrived. They were all seated at
the dinner table when the lindorm appeared and said, "Father, I want to
get married!" 
 "What kind of a woman would have you?" asked the king. 
 "If you do not find a wife for me, whoever she may be, I shall eat you
up, and the entire castle as well!" 
 So the king wrote to all the kingdoms, asking if someone would not
marry his son. Once again a beautiful princess came from far away. She too
was not allowed to see her groom until she was in the hall where they were
to be married. The lindorm entered and took his place beside her. When the
wedding day was over and they went into the bedroom, the lindorm killed
her. 
 Sometime later, on the queen's birthday, they were all seated at the
dinner table when the lindorm came in and said once again, "Father, I want
to get married!" 
 "I cannot get you another wife," answered the king. "The two kings
whose daughters I gave to you are now waging war against me. What am I to
do?" 
 "Just let them come! As long as I am on your side, just let them come,
and even if there were ten of them! But if you do not find a wife for me,
be she young or old, large or small, rich or poor, then I shall destroy
you and the castle as well!" 
 The king had to give in, but he was not happy about it. Now one of the
king's shepherds, an old man who lived in a little house in the woods, had
a daughter. The king went to him and said, "Listen, my dear man. Won't you
give your daughter in marriage to my son?" 
 "No, I can't do that. I have only the one child to care for me when I
am older, and further, if the prince can't take care of beautiful
princesses he will not take care of my daughter, and that would be a sin."
But the king insisted on having her, and the old man had to give in. 
 The old shepherd went home and told his daughter everything. She became
very sad and, deep in thought, took a walk in the woods. There she met an
old woman who had gone into the woods to pick berries and wild apples. She
was wearing a red skirt and a blue jacket. "Why are you so sad?" she
asked. 
 "I have every reason to be sad, but there is no purpose in my telling
you about it, because you can't help me." 
 "But perhaps I can," she said. "Just tell me!" 
 "Well, I am supposed to marry the king's son, but he is a lindorm and
has already killed two princesses, and I know for sure that he will kill
me as well." 
 "If you just listen to me, I can help you," said the old woman. 
 The girl was eager to hear her advice. "When you go to the bedroom
following the ceremony, you must have ten nightshirts on. If you don't
have that many, then you must borrow some. Ask for a bucketful of lye
water, a bucketful of sweet milk, and an armful of switches. All these
things must be taken to the bedroom. When he comes in, he will say,
'Beautiful maiden, take off your nightshirt!' Then you must say, 'King
Lindorm, take off your skin!' You will say that to each other until you
have taken off nine nightshirts and he has taken off nine skins. By then
he will not have another skin, but you will still have on a nightshirt.
Then you must take hold of him. He will be nothing more than a clump of
bloody meat. Dip the switches into the lye water and beat him with them
until he has almost fallen to pieces. Then you must bathe him in the sweet
milk, wrap him in the nine nightshirts, and hold him on your arm. You will
then fall asleep, but only for a short time." 
 The girl thanked her for the good advice, but she was still afraid, for
this was indeed a dangerous undertaking with such a sinister animal. 
 The wedding day arrived. A large and splendid carriage brought two
ladies who prepared the girl for the wedding. Then she was taken to the
castle and led into the hall. The lindorm appeared, took his place next to
her, and they were married. When evening arrived, and it was time for them
to go to bed, the bride asked for a bucketful of lye water, a bucketful of
sweet milk, and an armful of switches. The men all laughed at her, saying
that it was some kind of a peasant superstition and all in her
imagination. But the king said that she should have what she asked for,
and they brought it to her. Before going into the bedroom, she put nine
nightshirts over the one she was already wearing. 
 When they both were in the bedroom the lindorm said, "Beautiful maiden,
take off your nightshirt!" 
 She answered, "King Lindorm, take off your skin!" 
 And thus it continued until she had taken off nine nightshirts and he
had taken off nine skins. She found new courage, for he was now lying and
the floor with blood flowing freely from him and barely able to move. Then
she took the switches, dipped them into the lye water, and beat him as
hard as she could until there was scarcely a twig left among the sticks.
Then she dipped him into the sweet milk and laid him on her arm. She fell
asleep, for it was late, and when she awoke, she was lying in the arms of
a handsome prince. 
 Morning came, and no one dared to look into the bedroom, because they
all believed that the same thing had happened to her as to the two others.
Finally the king wanted to look, and as he opened the door she called out,
"Do come in! Everything is all right!" He went in and was filled with joy.
He fetched the queen and the others, and there was a great celebration
about the bridal bed unlike any that had ever been seen before. The bridal
couple got up and went into another room where they got dressed, because
the bedroom was in a horrible mess. Then the wedding was celebrated anew
with pomp and joy. The king and queen liked the young queen very much.
They could not treat her too well, for she had redeemed their lindorm. 
 Sometime later she became pregnant. There was another war, and the old
king and King Lindorm had gone to the battlefield. Her time arrived, and
she gave birth to two beautiful boys. At this time the Red Knight was at
court. They asked him to take the king a letter announcing the birth of
the two beautiful boys. He rode away a short distance and opened the
letter, then changed it to read that she had given birth to two young
dogs. The king received the letter and was very sad. He found it
unbelievable that she had given birth to young dogs, although it would
have not surprised him if it had been a lindorm or something like that. He
wrote back that the creatures should be allowed to live until he returned
home, that is if they could be kept alive at all. The Red Knight was to
deliver this letter, but a short distance away he opened it as well and
wrote that the queen and her children were to be burned alive. 
 The old queen was greatly saddened by this letter, for she liked the
young queen very much. Soon thereafter another letter arrived, announcing
the king's return home. The queen became frightened and did not know what
to do. She could not bring herself to have them burned. She sent the two
children to live with a wet nurse, for she hoped that the king might
change his mind once he was back home. She gave the young queen some money
and food and sent her into the forest. 
 She wandered about in the woods for two days and was in great need. She
came to a high mountain, which she climbed without stopping. At the top
there were three benches. She sat down on the middle one and squeezed the
milk from her breasts, for she was in great distress, not having her
children with her. Then two large birds, a swan and a crane, flew down and
sat on either side of her, and she pressed her milk into their beaks. They
were that close to her. And even as they sat there, they turned into the
two most handsome princes that one can imagine, and the mountain turned
into the most beautiful royal castle, with servants and animals and gold
and silver and everything that there should be. They had been enchanted,
and the spell would never have been broken if they had not drunk the milk
from a queen who had just given birth to two boys. She went with them,
with King Swan and King Crane. Each one wanted to marry her, for she had
redeemed them both. 
 Meanwhile King Lindorm arrived home and asked about the queen.
"Indeed!" Said the old queen. "You should be asking about her! Who do you
think that you are! You paid no attention to the fact that she redeemed
you from your curse. You just went ahead and wrote to me that she and the
children should be burned alive. For shame!" 
 "No!" answered King Lindorm. "You wrote to me that she had given birth
to two young dogs. And I wrote back that you should let the creatures live
until I returned home." 
 They talked back and forth for a long time and finally realized that
the Red Knight had been behind the treachery. He was captured, and he had
to confess. They locked him in a barrel studded with nails, hitched it to
four horses, and they ran with him over mountains and valleys. 
 The king was full of despair about his wife and children, when he
discovered that they were two beautiful boys. The old queen said to him,
"Don't worry, the boys are well cared for. They are staying with wet
nurses, but I do not know how she is faring. I gave her some food and
money and sent her into the woods, but since then we have heard nothing
from her." 
 The king ordered that the children be brought back. Then he took some
food and some money and went into the woods to look for her. He wandered
about for two, then three days looking for her, but he could not find her.
Finally he came to the castle in the woods. He asked if the people there
had not seen a strange maiden in the woods, but they had not seen anyone.
Then he wanted to enter the castle to see what kind of royalty lived
there. He went inside. Just as he entered he saw her, but she was afraid,
for she thought that he had come to burn her alive, and she ran away. 
 The two princes came in. They talked together and became good friends.
They invited him to stay for dinner. He mentioned the beautiful maiden and
asked where she was from. They answered that she was a lovely person and
that she had freed them both. He wanted to know what she had freed them
from, and they told him the entire story. Then he said that he liked her
very much and asked them if they could not come to an agreement concerning
her. He proposed that her dinner should be over salted, and that the
person she would ask to drink to her health should receive her. The
princes agreed to this arrangement, for this would enable them to
determine which of the two of them would have her, for they did not
believe that she would ask a stranger to drink to her health. 
 They went to dinner, and she said: 
 The food is too salty for me, 
King Swan sits next to me, 
King Crane is good to me, 
King Lindorm drinks with me. 
 He picked up the silver tankard and drank to her health. The others
drank to their own health, but then they had to drink to her health as
well, even though they were not satisfied with the outcome. Then King
Lindorm told how she had redeemed him before she had redeemed them.
Therefore he was the closest one to her. After hearing this, the two
princes stated that if he had told them this in the first place, they
would have given her to him. But he said that he could not have known that
for sure. 
 Then King Lindorm returned home with the queen. Meanwhile the children
had also been taken back home. King Swan kept the castle in the woods and
married a princess from another kingdom. And King Crane went to a
different country where he got married. Thus each one of them had
something. King Lindorm and his queen stood in high honor as long as they
lived. They were very happy and had many children. 
 When I was there the last time, they offered me a tin sandwich in a
sieve.