Galeotto, King of Anglia, has a son who is born
in the shape of a pig. This son marries three wives, and in the end,
having thrown off his semblance, becomes a handsome youth. 
 
 Fair ladies, if man were to spend a thousand years in rendering thanks
to his creator for having made him in the form of a human and not of a
brute beast, he could not speak gratitude enough. This reflection calls to
mind the story of one who was born as a pig, but afterwards became a
comely youth. Nevertheless, to his dying day he was known to the people
over whom he ruled as King Pig.
 You must know, dear ladies, that Galeotto, King of Anglia, was a man
highly blest in worldly riches, and in his wife Ersilia, the daughter of
Matthias, King of Hungary, a princess who, in virtue and beauty, outshone
all the other ladies of the time. And Galeotto was a wise king, ruling his
land so that no man could hear complaint against him. Though they had been
several years married they had no child, wherefore they both of them were
much aggrieved.
 While Ersilia was walking one day in her garden she felt suddenly
weary, and remarking hard by a spot covered with fresh green turf, she
went up to it and sat down thereon, and, overcome with weariness and
soothed by the sweet singing of the birds in the green foliage, she fell
asleep.
 And it chanced that while she slept there passed by three fairies who
held mankind somewhat in scorn, and these, when they beheld the sleeping
queen, halted, and gazing upon her beauty, took counsel together how they
might protect her and throw a spell upon her.
 When they were agreed, the first cried out, "I will that no man shall
be able to harm her, and that, the next time she lie with her husband, she
may be with child and bear a son who shall not have his equal in all the
world for beauty."
 Then said the second, "I will that no one shall ever have power to
offend her, and that the prince who shall be born of her shall be gifted
with every virtue under the sun."
 And the third said, "And I will that she shall be the wisest among
women, but that the son whom she shall conceive shall be born in the skin
of a pig, with a pig's ways and manners, and in this state he shall be
constrained to abide till he shall have three times taken a woman to
wife."
 As soon as the three fairies had flown away Ersilia awoke, and
straightway arose and went back to the palace, taking with her the flowers
she had plucked. Not many days had passed before she knew herself to be
with child, and when the time of her delivery was come, she gave birth to
a son with members like those of a pig and not of a human being.
 When tidings of this prodigy came to the ears of the king and queen
they lamented sore thereanent, and the king, bearing in mind how good and
wise his queen was, often felt moved to put this offspring of hers to
death and cast it into the sea, in order that she might be spared the
shame of having given birth to him. But when he debated in his mind and
considered that this son, let him be what he might, was of his own
begetting, he put aside the cruel purpose which he had been harboring,
and, seized with pity and grief, he made up his mind that the son should
be brought up and nurtured like a rational being and not as a brute beast.
 The child, therefore, being nursed with the greatest care, would often
be brought to the queen and put his little snout and his little paws in
his mother's lap, and she, moved by natural affection, would caress him by
stroking his bristly back with her hand, and embracing and kissing him as
if he had been of human form. Then he would wag his tail and give other
signs to show that he was conscious of his mother's affection.
 The pigling, when he grew older, began to talk like a human being, and
to wander abroad in the city, but whenever he came near to any mud or dirt
he would always wallow therein, after the manner of pigs, and return all
covered with filth. Then, when he approached the king and queen, he would
rub his sides against their fair garments, defiling them with all manner
of dirt, but because he was indeed their own son they bore it all.
 One day he came home covered with mud and filth, as was his wont, and
lay down on his mother's rich robe, and said in a grunting tone, "Mother,
I wish to get married."
 When the queen heard this, she replied, "Do not talk so foolishly. What
maid would ever take you for a husband, and think you that any noble or
knight would give his daughter to one so dirty and ill-savored as you?"
 But he kept on grunting that he must have a wife of one sort or
another. They queen, not knowing how to manage him in this matter, asked
the king what they should do in their trouble, "Our son wishes to marry,
but where shall we find anyone who will take him as a husband?"
 Every day the pig would come back to his mother with the same demand,
"I must have a wife, and I will never leave you in peace until you procure
for me a certain maiden I have seen today, who pleases me greatly."
 It happened that this maiden was a daughter of a poor woman who had
three daughters. When the queen heard this, she had brought before her the
poor woman and her eldest daughter, and said, "Good mother, you are poor
and burdened with children. If you will agree to what I shall say to you,
you will be rich. I have this son who is, as you see, in form a pig, and I
would fain marry him to your eldest daughter. Do not consider him, but
think of the king and of me, and remember that your daughter will inherit
this whole kingdom when the king and I shall be dead."
 When the young girl listened to the words of the queen she was greatly
disturbed in her mind and blushed red for shame, and then said that on no
account would she listen to the queen's proposition; but the poor mother
besought her so pressingly that at last she yielded.
 When the pig came home one day, all covered with dirt as usual, his
mother said to him, "My son, we have found for you the wife you desire."
And then she caused to be brought in the bride, who by this time had been
robed in sumptuous regal attire, and presented her to the pig prince. When
he saw how lovely and desirable she was he was filled with joy, and, all
foul and dirty as he was, jumped round about her, endeavoring by his
pawing and nuzzling to show some sign of his affection.
 But she, when she found he was soiling her beautiful dress, thrust him
aside; whereupon the pig said to her, "Why do you push me thus? Have I not
had these garments made for you myself?"
 Then she answered disdainfully, "No, neither you nor any other of the
whole kingdom of hogs has done this thing."
 And when the time for going to bed was come the young girl said to
herself, "What am I to do with this foul beast? This very night, while he
lies in his first sleep, I will kill him."
 The pig prince, who was not far off, heard these words, but said
nothing, and when the two retired to their chamber he got into the bed,
stinking and dirty as he was, and defiled the sumptuous bed with his
filthy paws and snout. He lay down by his spouse, who was not long in
falling to sleep, and then he struck her with his sharp hoofs and drove
them into her breast so that he killed her.
 The next morning the queen went to visit her daughter-in-law, and to
her great grief found that the pig had killed her; and when he came back
from wandering about the city he said, in reply to the queen's bitter
reproaches, that he had only wrought with his wife as she was minded to
deal with him, and then withdrew in an ill humor.
 Not many days had passed before the pig prince again began to beseech
the queen to allow him to marry one of the other sisters, and because the
queen at first would not listen to his petition he persisted in his
purpose, and threatened to ruin everything in the place if he could not
have her to wife. The queen, when she heard this, went to the king and
told him everything, and he made answer that perhaps it would be wiser to
kill their ill-fated offspring before he might work some fatal mischief in
the city.
 But the queen felt all the tenderness of a mother toward him, and loved
him very dearly in spite of his brutal person, and could not endure the
thought of being parted from him; so she summoned once more to the palace
the poor woman, together with her second daughter, and held a long
discourse with her, begging her the while to give her daughter in
marriage.
 At last the girl assented to take the pig prince for a husband; but her
fate was no happier than her sister's, for the bridegroom killed her, as
he had killed his other bride, and then fled headlong from the palace.
 When he came back dirty as usual and smelling so foully that no one
could approach him, the king and queen censured him gravely for the
outrage he had wrought; but again he cried out boldly that if he had not
killed her she would have killed him.
 As it had happened before, the pig in a very short time began to
importune his mother again to let him have to wife the youngest sister,
who was much more beautiful than either of the others; and when this
request of his was refused steadily, he became more insistent than ever,
and in the end began to threaten the queen's life in violent and
bloodthirsty words, unless he should have given to him the young girl for
his wife.
 The queen, when she heard this shameful and unnatural speech, was
well-nigh broken hearted and like to go out of her mind; but, putting all
other considerations aside, she called for the poor woman and her third
daughter, who was named Meldina, and thus addressed her, "Meldina, my
child, I should be greatly pleased if you would take the pig prince for a
husband; pay no regard to him, but to his father and to me; then, if you
will be prudent and bear patiently with him, you may be the happiest woman
in the world."
 To this speech Meldina answered, with a grateful smile upon her face,
that she was quite content to do as the queen bade her, and thanked her
humbly for deigning to choose her as a daughter-in-law; for, seeing that
she herself had nothing in the world, it was indeed great good fortune
that she, a poor girl, should become the daughter-in-law of a potent
sovereign.
 The queen, when she heard this modest and amiable reply, could not keep
back her tears for the happiness she felt; but she feared all the time
that the same fate might be in store for Meldina as her sisters.
 When the new bride had been clothed in rich attire and decked with
jewels, and was awaiting the bridegroom, the pig prince came in, filthier
and more muddy than ever; but she spread out her rich gown and besought
him to lie down by her side. Whereupon the queen bade her to thrust him
away, but to this she would not consent, and spoke thus to the queen,
"There are three wise sayings, gracious lady, which I remember to have
heard. The first is that it is folly to waste time in searching for that
which cannot be found. The second is that we should believe nothing we may
hear, except those things which bear the marks of sense and reason. The
third is that, when once you have got possession of some rare and precious
treasure, prize it well and keep a firm hold upon it."
 When the maiden had finished speaking, the pig prince, who had been
wide awake and had heard all that she had said, got up, kissed her on the
face and neck and bosom and shoulders with his tongue, and she was not
backward in returning his caresses; so that he was fired with a warm love
for her.
 As soon as the time for retiring for the night had come, the bride went
to bed and awaited her unseemly spouse, and, as soon as he came, she
raised the coverlet and bade him lie near to her and put his head upon the
pillow, covering him carefully with the bedclothes and drawing the
curtains so that he might feel no cold.
 When morning had come the pig got up and ranged abroad to pasture, as
was his wont, and very soon after the queen went to the bride's chamber,
expecting to find that she had met with the same fate as her sisters; but
when she saw her lying in the bed, all defiled with mud as it was, and
looking pleased and contented, she thanked God for this favor, that her
son had at last found a spouse according to his liking.
 One day, soon after this, when the pig prince was conversing pleasantly
with his wife, he said to her, "Meldina, my beloved wife, if I could be
fully sure that you could keep a secret, I would now tell you one of mine;
something I have kept hidden for many years. I know you to be very prudent
and wise, and that you love me truly; so I wish to make you the sharer of
my secret."
 "You may safely tell it to me, if you will," said Meldina, "for I
promise never to reveal it to anyone without your consent."
 Whereupon, being now sure of his wife's discretion and fidelity, her
straightway shook off from his body the foul and dirty skin of the pig,
and stood revealed as a handsome and well shaped young man, and all that
night rested closely folded in the arms of his beloved wife.
 But he charged her solemnly to keep silence about this wonder she had
seen, for the time had not yet come for his complete delivery from this
misery. So when he left the bed he donned the dirty pig's hid once more. I
leave you to imagine for yourselves how great was the great joy of Meldina
when she discovered that, instead of a pig, she had gained a handsome and
gallant young prince for a husband.
 Not long after this she proved to with child, and when the time her
delivery came she gave birth to a fair and shapely boy. The joy of the
king and queen was unbounded, especially when they found that the newborn
child had the form of a human being and not that of a beast.
 But the burden of the strange and weighty secret which her husband had
confided to her pressed heavily upon Meldina, and one day she went to her
mother-in-law and said, "Gracious queen, when first I married your son I
believed I was married to a beast, but not I find that you have given me
the comeliest, the worthiest, and the most gallant young man ever born
into the world to be my husband. For know that when he comes into my
chamber to lie by my side, he casts off his dirty hide and leaves it on
the ground, and is changed into a graceful handsome youth. No one could
believe this marvel save they saw it with their own eyes."
 When the queen heard these words she deemed that her daughter-in-law
must be jesting with her, but Meldina still persisted that what she said
was true. And when the queen demanded to know how she might witness with
her own eyes the truth of this thing, Meldina replied, "Come to my chamber
tonight, when we shall be in our first sleep; the door will be open, and
you will find that what I tell you is the truth."
 That same night, when the looked-for time had come, and all were gone
to rest, the queen let some torches be kindled and went, accompanied by
the king, to the chamber of her son, and when she had entered she saw the
pig's skin lying on the floor in the corner of the room, and having gone
to the bedside, found therein a handsome young man in whose arms Meldina
was lying. And when they saw this, the delight of the king and queen was
very great, and the king gave order that before anyone should leave the
chamber the pig's hide should be torn to shreds. So great was their joy
over the recovery of their son that they well-nigh died thereof.
 And King Galeotto, when he saw that he had so fine a son, and a
grandchild likewise, laid aside his diadem and his royal robes, and
advanced to his place his son, whom he let be crowned with the greatest
pomp, and who was ever afterwards known as King Pig. Thus, to the great
contentment of all the people, the young king began his reign, and he
lived long and happily with Meldina his beloved wife.