Mountain 
 
King Karl fought a great battle at the foot of Odin's Mountain.  So much
blood was shed that it eroded deep furrows into the ground.  These often
have been dammed up, but the rain always washes them open again.  The
floods of blood streamed together and finally poured into the River Besse.
Karl fought and prevailed.  In the evening the mountain opened up,
received him and his exhausted warriors, and then closed its walls. 
However, the stories about these events contradict one another.  According
to some, Karl, pursued by the enemy, fled to Odin's Mountain where he
beseeched the Godhead to take him and all of his people into the mountain.
The mountain opened up, and Karl went inside with his entire army,
whereupon the crevice closed behind them. 
The king rests from all his heroic deeds in this mountain.  He has
promised to come out every seven or every hundred years.  When the time
comes, one can hear weapons rattling in the air, the neighing and hoof
beats of horses, and the sounds of drums and bugles.  Karl the Fifth and
his warriors are leaving their underground home.  The procession goes to
Glis Spring, where the horses drink, and then continues its round and
finally returns to the mountain. 
Sunday's children who were born between two churches have often seen the
procession.  Most of the soldiers are maimed; the one has lost an arm,
another a leg or an ear.  Many have gaping wounds. 
One time some people went to Odin's Mountain and heard the sound of drums
but did not see anything.  Then a wise man asked them, one after the
other, to look through the circle he had made by bending his arm against
his body.  They did this and saw a band of soldiers drilling with their
weapons, coming and going from Odin's Mountain. 
Inside the mountain they grow oats for their horses.  "The Quint" throws
out all the oats that he does not need for his horses.  Every day the
warriors clean and thresh oats and pile up large stores in their chambers.
Once a swineherd noticed that one of his sows always ran away from the
herd when he brought them to Odin's Mountain, and she always returned fat
and full.  One day he followed her.  She ran through a hole into the
mountain where there was a great store of oats. 
Every seven years the mountain opens up, and anyone who happens to find
the opening that leads inside is very fortunate, because great treasures
lie within the mountain.  But the passageway is only open for a fourth of
an hour, and anyone who does not return to the outside before this time is
up will have to remain there until the next seven years have passed.
However, those whose fate it is to stay there do not grow any older while
they are inside the mountain.  They remain just as they were at the moment
that the mountain closed. 
Until just a few years ago no one would approach the mountain without
shuddering for fear of Karl the Fifth.  Children who collected nuts and
strawberries there were warned by their parents, "Be careful that the
Quint doesn't get you!"  Further, mothers disciplined their children with
the threat, "The Quint is coming!"