There was once a king who wanted to marry, but he had decided to take
no woman for a wife who did not have pitch-black hair and eyes of the same
color. It made no difference to him whether she was of high or low birth.
Thus he had proclaimed throughout the entire country that all girls with
these qualities should report to him.
 Many presented themselves, but in some instances the blackness did not
reach the degree desired by the king, in other instances the hair was
wrong, and -- in short -- there was a problem with each and every one.
 A charcoal burner was walking along the path with his daughter. Seeing
the crowd of people before the king's castle, she asked her father what it
meant. He told her how the king wanted to marry someone with black hair
and black eyes, but that he could not find anyone who had them to his
satisfaction.
 The charcoal burner's daughter had both. Therefore she said to her
father, "May I go there?"
 He replied, "Are you so stupid that you think the king would take you
for his wife?"
 She told him that she would like to go and just look around the palace
a little. He gave his permission, and she walked toward the palace.
 On the way she met a little man, who called out to her, "Hey, girl,
what will you give me if you become queen?"
 She answered, "Hey, little man, what can I give you? I have nothing."
 The little man continued, "You will become queen, but in three years
you must still remember that my name is Kruzimugeli. If you don't know
that, then you'll be mine."
 "If that's all you want from me, I'll remember it," replied the
charcoal burner's daughter, and ran to the castle. She took no more heed
of the little man who stared after her, rubbing his hands together with
satisfaction.
 As soon as the king saw the charcoal burner's daughter he decided to
marry her, for her hair glistened and her eyes sparked with blackness. So
she married the king and lived happily together with him. In her happiness
she almost failed to notice that the three years were coming to an end,
and -- oh fright! -- she had forgotten the little man's name.
 Now she was always sad and spent every day crying. The king, who loved
her dearly, attempted to cheer her up with festivities, but all to no
avail. Whenever he asked her why she was so sad, she always answered that
she could not tell him.
 One day the royal forester was out in the woods in search of game for
the king's table. Going deeper into the woods, he saw a little man who had
made a fire and was jumping over it with spiteful joy, singing the whole
time:
 How good it is 
That the young queen doesn't know 
That my name is Kruzimugeli. 
The hunter listened to this and then went back home. He met the queen in
the palace garden, where -- filled with sorrow -- she was taking a walk.
He told her immediately about the event in the woods, and as soon as she
heard the name Kruzimugeli she was almost beside herself with joy. The
next day was the last day of the third year, and the little man would be
coming to ask the queen for his name.
 The little man did indeed come the next day, and he asked the queen,
"Now, Your Highness, do you still know my name? You may guess three times,
and if you are not right, then you belong to me."
 The queen answered, "I think your name is Steffel."
 Hearing this, the little man jumped into the air with joy, and shouted
with all his might, "Not right!"
 The queen then said, "Then your name must be Veitl."
 The little man made another leap, and called out once more, "Not
right!"
 Now the queen said very quietly, "Then your name must be Kruzimugeli."
 Hearing this, and without answering, the little man jumped with a roar
through the wall to the outside.
 All attempts to repair the hole that he made in the wall remained
fruitless.
 But the queen and her husband lived happily and contentedly for a long
time.