A long time ago near Sandbühl there lived an elf. He was scarcely
three spans tall. He often ran around dressed in only a shirt, which
angered the people, but otherwise he did not get in their way. On the
contrary did them many favors. He cut straw for them, tended their cows,
and helped them with work at home and in the field. He also provided the
sick with healing herbs and rescued many children from death. 
 One time a beautiful peasant girl was gored by a steer. She screamed
aloud and called for help. The friendly elf came immediately, comforted
her, and promised to help and rescue her, if she would marry him and go
with him to the elf kingdom. She had no choice but to say yes, and upon
her agreement the elf rescued her. Now she was supposed to go with the
dwarf into the mountain, but she did not at all want to. She therefore
asked the elf if he would not release her, promising him a beautiful red
jacket if he would do so. 
 The dwarf said, "I can easily get a red jacket. However, if you can
guess my name within three days, you shall be released from you
promise." 
 The girl was satisfied with this answer, and she went home. 
 She thought the entire night about the dwarf's name, but it did not
come to her. The next day the girl went out to the sand hill where the elf
stayed. She said all kinds of names, but none was the right one, and the
dwarf said, "Go home and think about it some more." 
 The girl returned home and thought day and night about what the little
man's name might be. The following day she went out to the sand hill
again, where she found the dwarf. Then she said many, many names, but none
was the right one. 
 The dwarf said, "Go home and think about it better, or tomorrow you
will be my wife." 
 So the girl, with her head hanging, returned home sad and dejected. She
had given up hope of guessing the dwarf's name.  
 But where the need is greatest, there help will come the soonest. A
peasant boy was working near the sand hill, and at noontime he lay down
behind the brush to rest. The elf came out of his hole in the ground, and
thinking that no one was there, he clapped his hands and danced around in
his little shirt while singing,

 
 
 
 Gott sei Lob und Dank, 
Daß meine Braut nicht weiß, 
Daß ich Kugerl heiß.   
 
 Praise and thanks to God, 
That my bride does not know, 
That I am called Kugerl. 
 
 
 

Then he jumped up, shouted for joy, and sang anew,

 
 
 
 Gott sei Lob und Dank, 
Daß meine Braut nicht weiß, 
Daß ich Kugerl heiß.   
 
 Praise and thanks to God, 
That my bride does not know, 
That I am called Kugerl. 
 
 
 
 The peasant boy was amused by the dwarf's antics, and that evening when
he went to the girl's house to visit, he laughingly told her what he had
seen and heard that day in the meadow near Sandbühl. The girl was now
happy beyond measure and no longer had any fears or concerns. 
 Early in the morning of the following day she went up to the sand hill.
She took a red jacket for the dwarf, for she wanted to give him something
for rescuing her. When the tiny little man saw her coming he was filled
with joy, and said, "Now tell me, what is my name?" 
 The girl said, "Putzli." 
 Then the dwarf laughed and asked her once again. 
 The girl said, "Nudi." 
 Then the elf laughed until he shook, and said, "Guess once again!" 
 Then the girl answered, "Would your name be Kugerl?" and gave him the
red jacket. 
 Then the dwarf began to cry and to moan, and carrying the jacket he
went out into the woods. Since that hour he has not been seen again, and
no one knows where he went.