Elinas, King of Albania, to divert his grief for the death of his wife,
amused himself with hunting. One day, at the chase, he went to a fountain
to quench his thirst. As he approached it he heard the voice of a woman
singing, and on coming to it he found there the beautiful fay
Pressina. 
 After some time the fay bestowed her hand upon him, on the condition
that he should never visit her at the time of her lying-in. She had three
daughters at a birth: Melusina, Melior, and Palatina. Nathas, the king's
son by a former wife, hastened to convey the joyful tidings to his
father, who, without reflection, flew to the chamber of the queen, and
entered as she was bathing her daughters. Pressina, on seeing him, cried
out that he had broken his word, and she must depart. And taking up her
three daughters, she disappeared. 
 She retired to the Lost Island, so called because it was only by chance
any, even those who had repeatedly visited it, could find it. Here she
reared her children, taking them every morning to a high mountain, whence
Albania might be seen, and telling them that but for their father's breach
of promise they might have lived happily in the distant land which they
beheld. 
 When they were fifteen years of age, Melusina asked her mother
particularly of what their father had been guilty. On being informed of
it, she conceived the design of being revenged on him. Engaging her
sisters to join in her plans, they set out for Albania. Arrived there,
they took the king and all his wealth, and, by a charm, enclosed him in a
high mountain, called Brandelois. On telling their mother what they had
done, she, to punish them for the unnatural action, condemned Melusina to
become every Saturday a serpent, from the waist downwards, till she should
meet a man who would marry her under the condition of never seeing her on
a Saturday, and should keep his promise. She influenced other judgements
on her two sisters, less severe in proportion to their guilt. 
 Melusina now went roaming through the world in search of the man who
was to deliver her. She passed through the Black Forest, and that of
Ardennes, and at last she arrived in the forest of Colombiers, in Poitou,
where all the fays of the neighborhood came before her, telling her they
had been waiting for her to reign in that place. 
 Raymond having accidentally killed the count, his uncle, by the
glancing aside of his boar-spear, was wandering by night in the forest of
Colombiers. He arrived at a fountain that rose at the foot of a high rock.
This fountain was called by the people the Fountain of Thirst, or the
Fountain of the Fays, on account of the many marvelous things which had
happened at it. 
 At the time, when Raymond arrived at the fountain, three ladies were
diverting themselves there by the light of the moon, the principal of
which was Melusina. Her beauty and her amiable manners quickly won his
love. She soothed him, concealed the deed he had done, and married him, he
promising on his oath never to desire to see her on a Saturday. She
assured him that a breach of his oath would forever deprive him of her
whom he so much loved, and be followed by the unhappiness of both for
life. Out of her great wealth she built for him, in the neighborhood of
the Fountain of Thirst, where he first saw her, the castle of Lusignan.
She also built La Rochelle, Cloitre Malliers, Mersent, and other
places. 
 But destiny, that would have Melusina single, was incensed against her.
The marriage was made unhappy by the deformity of the children born of one
that was enchanted. But still Raymond's love for the beauty that ravished
both heart and eyes remained unshaken. Destiny renewed her attacks.
Raymond's cousin had excited him to jealousy and to secret concealment, by
malicious suggestions of the purport of the Saturday retirement of the
countess. He hid himself; and then saw how the lovely form of Melusina
ended below in a snake, gray and sky-blue, mixed with white. But it was
not horror that seized him at the sight, it was infinite anguish at the
reflection that through his breach of faith he might lose his lovely wife
forever. 
 Yet this misfortune had not speedily come on him, were it not that his
son, Geoffroi with the Tooth [a boar's tusk projected from his mouth], had
burned his brother Freimund, who would stay in the abbey of Malliers, with
the abbot and a hundred monks. At which the afflicted father, Count
Raymond, when his wife Melusina was entering his closet to comfort him,
broke out into these words against her, before all the courtiers who
attended her, "Out of my sight, thou pernicious snake and odious serpent!
thou contaminator of my race!" 
 Melusina's former anxiety was now verified, and the evil that had lain
so long in ambush had now fearfully sprung on him and her. At these
reproaches she fainted away; and when at length she revived, full of the
profoundest grief, she declared to him that she must now depart from him,
and, in obedience to a decree of destiny, fleet about the earth in pain
and suffering, as a specter, until the day of doom; and that only when one
of her race was to die at Lusignan would she become visible. 
 Her words at parting were these, "But one thing will I say unto thee
before I part, that thou, and those who for more than a hundred years
shall succeed thee, shall know that whenever I am seen to hover over the
fair castle of Lusignan, then will it be certain that in that very year
the castle will get a new lord; and though people may not perceive me in
the air, yet they will see me by the Fountain of Thirst; and thus shall it
be so long as the castle stand in honor and flourishing -- especially on
the Friday before the lord of the castle shall die." 
 Immediately, with wailing and loud lamentation, she left the castle of
Lusignan, and has ever since existed as a specter of the night. 
 Raymond died as a hermit on Monserrat.