Each of following electronic text libraries contains a substantial 
collection of works relating to folk and fairy tales. 
 
 Arthur's Classic Novels  
includes numerous traditional and literary fairy tales, mostly borrowed 
from other Internet sites then attractively reformatted.   
 The  Baldwin 
Project , according to its mission statement, brings yesterday's 
classics to today's children. It currently lists nearly 2,000 stories, 
many of them folk and fairy tales. The site is indexed by grade level, 
genre (including fables, fairy tales, and legends), book title, and other 
categories. The texts are handsomely formatted and easy to read.  
 Bartleby.com  is 
one of the pioneering electronic text sites. Its strong points include a 
very useful search mechanism, a large collection of integrated reference 
works, plus a good assortment of carefully edited classics.  
 Bibliomania  
lists more than 2,000 classic texts.   
 Children's Books 
Online (the Rosetta Project)  is a large collection of illustrated 
children's books, mostly from the nineteenth and early twentieth 
centuries. The books are reproduced as single-page, full-color image 
files, resulting in accurate and appealing replicas of the originals. An 
added attraction are the text-file translations of many of the stories 
into various languages.  
 ClassicReader.com  contains books 
and short stories by more than 200 authors. The children's section 
includes numerous collections of traditional fairy tales, and the 
short-story section contains many literary fairy tales.  
 The  Electronic 
Text Center  at the University of Virginia is a pioneer in the editing 
and distribution of electronic texts in various formats. Included in the 
section for young readers are many folk and fairy-tale related items.  
 Folktexts , compiled 
and edited by D. L. Ashliman, University of Pittsburgh, offers a variety 
of folklore and mythology texts, arranged in groups of closely related 
stories.   
 The  Hockliffe Project  
is centered around the Hockliffe Collection of early British children's 
books held by De Montfort University in Leicester and Bedford, England. 
The books are scanned into image files, rather than text files, yielding 
exact replicas of each page.  
 The  Kellscraft Studio  
specializes in illustrated books from the period 1890-1920, including many 
fairy-tale collections. Take special notice of two books beautifully 
illustrated by Blanche McManus:  The True Mother Goose   and  Told 
in the Twilight.   
 The  Perseus 
Digital Library , sponsored by Tufts University, is an extensive and 
well-engineered site combining images, texts, and scholarship. The 
principal fields represented are Greek and Roman civilization and the 
English Renaissance. Of special interest to students of folktales are the 
fables of Phaedrus.  
 Project 
Gutenberg , begun in 1971, is the Internet's oldest producer of free 
electronic books, and with over 6,000 online books is among the largest. 
With the help of many volunteers the library is expanding at the rate of 
about one new book per day. Project Gutenberg's text-only and easily 
downloadable files are among the most carefully scanned and proof-read 
digital texts available.  
 Sacred 
Text 
Archive . This remarkable site's name does not say it all. In addition 
to housing the scriptures of many religions, it contains mythology and 
folklore texts from around the world. Each of the following topics, 
selected from a list at the lower left side of the site's index page, 
yields a number of folklore texts: African, Americana, Australia, 
Buddhism, Celtic, Egyptian, England, Greek/Roman, Hinduism, Judaism, 
Legends/Sagas (includes the  Thousand and One Nights ), Native 
American, Pacific, and Tolkien.