There was once upon a time a boy named Lars, and because he was so very little he was called "Little Lasse." He was a plucky boy, for once he travelled all round the world in a pea-pod boat. It was Summer-time, when the peas grew green and tall in the garden. Little Lasse crept into the pea-bed between the rows of peas, where the pea-stalks reached high above his cap, and broke off seventeen large pods, the biggest and straightest he could possibly have wished for. Little Lasse thought that no one saw him, and that was stupid, for God's eyes for God's eyes are every where. Then the Gardener came past with his gun upon his shoulder and heard some thing rustle among the peas.  
"I think it must be Sparrows," he called out.  
"'Sh! 'sh!" but no Sparrow flew out, for Little Lasse had no wings, only two little legs.  
"Stop a a moment; I shall load my gun and shoot the Sparrows, " said the Gardener. Then Little Lasse got frightened and crept out from the rows of peas.  
"I am so sorry, Gardener, dear," he said; "I was only seeking some nice boats."  
"That excuse may do for this time, " said the Gardener, " but in future Little Lasse must ask leave if he wishes to search for ships in the pea-beds."  
"I'll do that," answered Lasse, and off he was to the shore. There he split up his pods with a pin, slit them quite evenly, and broke up some small twigs for rowing benches. Then he took the peas which had been in the pods, and laid them as cargo in the boats. Some of the pods broke, some remained whole, and when all were ready Little Lasse had twelve boats, but they were they were never boats, they were large war-vessels. He had three ships of the line, three frigates, three brigs, and three schooners.  
The biggest ship of the line was called  Hercules , and the smallest schooner was called  The Flea . Little Lasse placed all twelve in the water, and they floated in such a stately manner that no real ship ever danced more proudly on the ocean's billows. Now the ships were to travel round the world. The big island far away there was Asia; the large stone was Africa; the little island was America; the small stones were Polynesia, and the shore from where the ships sailed was Europe.  
The whole fleet started and floated slowly away to the different parts of the world. The ships of the line sailed straight for Asia; the frigates sailed to Africa, the brigs to America, and the schooners to Polynesia. Little Lasse remained behind in Europe and threw small stones into the world's ocean.  
On the shore of Europe there was a real boat, papa's own, beautiful, white painted boat, and Little Lasse climbed into it. The pea-boats had sailed so far away, that to the eye they seemed like mere stalks of grass on the water. Little Lasse suddenly conceived a desire to row out into the world. That Papa and Mamma had certainly forbidden, but he never thought of that.  
"I shall row a little bit -- just a little bit out," thought he. "I shall catch up the ship  Hercules  near the coast of Asia, and then row back to Europe again."  
Little Lasse only shook the chain by which the boat was attached, so it was rather a wonder that it became unloosed.  
"Ritsch, ratsch, a man is a man," and Little Lasse shot out the boat.  
Now he had to row, and row he could, for he had rowed so often on the stair at home, with the stair for a boat and Papa's big stick as an oar. But when little Lasse wished to row he found there were no oars in the boat; these were kept in the boat-house, and Little Lasse had never noticed that the boat was empty. It is not so easy as one may think to row to Asia without oars.  
What was Little Lasse to do? The boat was now some distance out on the water, and the wind which blew from the shore was always driving it further. Little Lasse got frightened and began to cry; no one was on the shore, so no one heard him. Only a big crow sat by himself in the big birch-tree, beneath which crept the Gardener's black cat and lay in wait for the crow. No one was in the least concerned about Little Lasse, who was drifting out to sea. Ah, how sorry Little Lasse now was that he had been disobedient and got into the boat, doing what his Father and Mother had so often forbidden! Now it is too late! He will never reach land again; perhaps he may perish in the vast sea. What was he to do?  
When he had cried himself hoarse, and no one heard him, he clasped his little hands and said: "Good God, do not be angry with Little Lasse!" and then he slept.  
In spite of the fact that it was now broad daylight, old Nukki Matti sat on the shore of Featherbed Island fishing with his long net for little children. He heard the soft words which Little Lasse had uttered; quickly he drew the boat towards him, and laid Little Lasse to sleep upon the rose-leaf beds, saying to one of his Dreamers: "Play with Little Lasse that he may not weary!"  
This was addressed to a little Dream-boy, so very, very little that he was less than Lasse himself. He had blue eyes, fair hair, a red cap with silver band, and a white jacket with a pearl-trimmed collar.  
He came to Lasse, and said: "Would you like to travel all round the world?"  
"Yes," said Lasse in his sleep; "certainly I would."  
"Come then, " said the Dream-boy, "let us sail in your pea-ships. You shall sail in  Hercules , and I'll travel on  The Flea ."  
So they sailed away from Featherbed Island, and in a short time  Hercules  and  The Flea  were on the shores of Asia, far away at the end of the world, where the White Sea flows through Behring Straits and joins the Pacific Ocean. Far away through the winter fogs, Nordenskiold is seen, with the steamship  Vega  trying to find a passage through the ice.  
Here it was very, very cold; the mighty icebergs glistened so marvellously, the big whales were housed beneath them and tried in vain to make holes in the ice with their clumsy heads. All around the bleak shores was snow as far as the eye could reach; upon it little grey men walked about, clad in skins and drove in small sledges through the drifts, and dogs were harnessed to the sledges.  
"Shall we land here?" asked the Dream-boy.  
"No," said Lasse. "I am afraid of being swallowed up by the big whales, and the big dogs might bite us. Let us rather travel to another part of the world."  
"All right," said the Dream-boy with the red cap and silver band; "we are not far from America," -- and at that moment they were there.  
The sun shone, and it was very hot. Tall palm-trees stood in long rows on the shore, bearing cocoanuts on their tops. Men as red as copper rode at a gallop across the vast green plains and threw their spears at buffaloes, which turned on them with their sharp horns. An enormous boaconstrictor had crept up the highest palm and threw itself down on a llama which was eating grass at the foot of the palm. In a twinkling it was all over with the little deer.  
"Shall we land here?" asked the Dream-boy.  
"No," said Lasse. "I am so afraid of being gored by the big buffaloes; and the big snake might swallow us up. Let us go to some other part of the world."  
"All right," said the Dream-boy in the white jacket. "We are only a short way from Polynesia" -- and as he said so, they were there.  
Here it was still hotter -- as hot as a Russian bath, when water has just been poured upon the stone. Here there grew upon the shore the richest spices, pepper trees, cinnamon, ginger, saffron, coffee and tea shrubs. Brown men, with long ears and thick lips and their faces hideously painted, hunted a yellow-spotted tiger among the tall bamboos on the shore, and the tiger turned round and planted its claws in one of the brown men. Then all took to flight.  
"Are we going to land here?" asked the Dream-boy.  
"No," said Little Lasse. "Don't you see the tiger over there among the pepper trees? Let us go to another part of the world."  
"That's not difficult to do," said the Dream-boy with the blue eyes. "We are not far from Africa" -- and as he said that they were there.  
They anchored at the mouth of a large river, whose banks were as green as the greenest velvet. A short distance from the river there stretched a vast sandy desert. The air was yellow, the sun burned as fiercely as if it were going to burn the earth to ashes, and the inhabitants were as black as the blackest ink. They rode on tall camels through the desert, the lions panted with thirst, and huge crocodiles with their big lizard-like heads gaped with their sharp white teeth out of the river.  
"Shall we land here?" asked the Dream-boy.  
"No," said Little Lasse. "The sun would burn us up, and the lions and crocodiles hurt us. Let us go to another part of the world."  
"We must just sail back again to Europe," said the Dream-boy with the light hair -- and at that moment they were there.  
They reached a shore; it was all so cool, so familiar, so homelike. There stood the tall birch with its drooping leaves. On the top of it sat the old crow, and at the foot of it crept the Gardener's black cat. Not far off was a house which Lasse had seen before. Beside the house was a garden, and in the garden grew some rows of peas with long pea-pods. There was the old Gardener with his gardener's green hat, and he wondered if the cucumbers were ripe. There was Fylax barking on the steps, and when he saw Lasse he wagged his tail. There was old Stina milking the cows in the farmyard. There was a well-known lady, in her checked woollen shawl, watching the linen webs bleach on the green grass. There was an equally well-known gentleman in a yellow summer coat, with a long pipe in his mouth, watching the harvest workers reap the rye in the fields.  
There were a boy and girl jumping about on the shore, and calling out: "Little Lasse! Little Lasse! Come in and have bread and butter!"  
"Shall we land here?" asked the Dream-boy, winking so roguishly with his blue eyes.  
"Come with me, and I'll ask Mamma to give you a piece of bread and butter and a glass of milk, " said Little Lasse.  
"Wait a bit," said the Dream-boy.  
And now Little Lasse saw that the kitchen door stood open, and through it there issued a soft delightful hissing, as if one were pouring yellow batter from a spoon into a hot frying-pan.  
"Perhaps we should return to Polynesia," whispered the merry Dream-boy.  
"No, the pancakes are frying in Europe," said Little Lasse, trying to jump ashore, but could not, for the Dream-boy had bound him with fetters of flowers, so that to move was impossible. And now all the little Dreams surrounded him -- thousands and thousands of tiny children -- and they formed a circle round him, singing this little song:  
 
The world is so big a place,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie,  
Far bigger than thy thoughts can trace,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie.  
There are countries warm and cold,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie;  
God all things doth safely hold,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie.  
People live there, great and small,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie,  
Those dear to God are happy all,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie.  
If God's angel thee do guide,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie,  
No harm can ever thee betide,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie.  
Say, where would'st thou like to rest,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie?  
The world is fair, but home is best,  
Bairnie, wee bairnie.   
 
When the Dreams had finished their song, they all hopped off, and Nukki Matti carried Little Lasse back to the boat. For a long time he lay quite still, and seemed to hear the pancakes frizzling over the fire at home. The frizzling became more distinct; Little Lasse seemed to hear it just beside him -- and then he awoke and opened his eyes.  
Then he lay in the boat, where he had fallen asleep The wind had changed, and while the boat was drifted out with one wind, it was blown back to shore with the other, while Little Lasse was sleeping. What Lasse had imagined to be the frying of pancakes was in reality the gentle ripple of the waves as they lapped against the pebbly beach.  
Little Lasse rubbed his sleepy eyes, and looked around him. All was as before the crow in the birch, the cat upon the grass, and the pea-pod fleet by the shore. Some of the ships had been wrecked, and some had drifted back to land.  Hercules  had arrived with his cargo from Asia;  The Flea  had returned from Polynesia, and all the divisions of the world were precisely where they were before.  
Little Lasse never knew exactly how it all happened. He had been so often to Featherbed Island, and yet he never knew how playful Dreams can be. He never troubled his head further to find out, but gathered his boats together, and marched up to the house.  
His brothers and sisters came to meet him, calling out at a dis tance: "Where have you been all this time, Lasse? Come in and get bread and butter!"  
But the kitchen door stood open, and he heard a mysterious frying. The Gardener stood at the gate giving an evening watering to the parsley, dill, carrots, and turnips.  
"Well," said he, "where have you been all this time?"  
Little Lasse tossed his head, looked dignified, and answered "I have sailed all round the world in a pea-pod boat."  
"Oh ho," said the Gardener. As for him, he had forgotten all about Featherbed Islands!  
But you haven't forgotten them; you know that they exist; you know their shining grotto. The glittering walls never rust, the shimmering diamonds never lose their lustre, and never does music sound so sweet as that which is heard in the grotto in the balmy evening twilight. As the bright stars never grow old, neither do the light airy Dreams in the halls of Feather bed Island. Perhaps you have caught a glimpse of their delicate wings as they flew around your pillow?  
Perhaps you have met the same Dream-boy with the blue eyes and the fair hair, he who wears a red cap with silver band, and the white jacket with pearls on the collar? Perhaps he has also shown you the different countries and peoples in the world, the chilly wastes and burning deserts, the many-coloured men and wild animals in forest and sea, so that you may learn something; but return gladly to your home? Yes, who knows? Perhaps you also have travelled all round the world in a pea-pod boat?