One day a farmer and his wife went out to harvest. They left their little boy at home, telling him to come to the field at noon to bring them their soup. The boy was called Little Blue Riding Hood because he always wore a hood of that color. 
As noon approached the little boy poured the soup into a pot and proceeded to take it to his parents. As he passed by the barn he saw that the cow had nothing to eat. He set his pot next to her and went to get some fodder. Unfortunately the cow kicked the pot, and all the soup spilled on the floor. This upset the boy greatly, so he hid himself in a haystack.  
When he did not arrive at the parents, they returned home. They called to him and looked everywhere for him, but Little Blue Riding Hood was nowhere.  
The hungry cow began to bellow, and they gave her the hay where the boy was hiding. The cow swallowed the child with the hay.  
A little later they wanted to renew the litter, but the cow would not move aside. They pushed her and hit her, but nothing helped.  
"Move cow, move!"  
"I will not move!"  
Hearing the cow speak, people were astonished to hear the cow speak and believed that she was bewitched. They did not know that it was Little Blue Riding Hood who answered for her.  
They ran and fetched the mayor.  
"Move cow, move!"  
"I will not move!"  
Finally they fetched the parish priest, who said to the cow in French, "Move cow, move!"  
"I don't understand French; I will not move!"  
Not knowing what else to do, the farmer sent for the butcher. The beast was killed and butchered. 
The stomach was thrown out and picked up by an old woman, who carried it away in her basket. She was scarcely outside the village when the little boy began to sing: "Walk on, walk on, old fool! I'm here in your basket."  
The frightened old woman walked on faster without daring to look behind her. She passed a flock of sheep, and the little boy shouted out, "Shepherd, shepherd, look out for your sheep! Here comes a wolf."  
The old woman, half mad with fear, felt herself and said: "I am not a wolf! What can that mean?"  
When she got home, she closed the door, put her basket on the floor, and slit open the cow's stomach. As soon as she turned her head, the little boy came out of his prison and hid behind the cupboard.  
The old woman prepared the tripe for her supper. She was just beginning to recover from her fright and thought only of enjoying herself, when suddenly the little boy began to cry out "Bon appétit, old woman!"  
This time the poor woman thought that the devil was there with her, and she began to tremble in all over.  
"Listen up," the little boy said to her then without leaving his hiding place. "Promise me not to tell anyone where you found me and to take me where I tell you. I'll then gladly leave you alone, and you won't be sorry to be rid of me."  
The old woman promised everything, and Little Blue Riding Hood showed himself to her. She took him back to his parents, who were very happy to see him again.