Version A  
Once there lived a little pig in a very close little room. A wolf would 
come by every day and try to fool the little pig out, so he could eat him. 
One morning the wolf called, but the pig did not answer him.   
The wolf was very sure the little pig was in there: so he said, "I know 
where a plenty of grapes. You better come and go with me."   
When the wolf was gone, the little pig put out for the grapevine. By that 
time the wolf came to the pig's home and called him again. He did not 
receive any answer. Then he put out to the grape tree too. When the pig 
saw the wolf, he hid in some moss on the tree. The wolf saw the pig before 
he got there; and when he got there, he called the pig, but he did not get 
any answer. By that time the wolf started to climb the tree. When he got 
to the little pig, the little pig ran out and jumped and ran away, and got 
home before the wolf caught him. By the time the little pig jumped in his 
door and shut it, the wolf had his head in the door, and it caught his 
head.   
He said to the pig, "Let me go! I will not hurt you."   
The pig opened the do' a little, and the wolf jumped in. The pig caught 
him by the leg, but he was afeard: so he said, "Yonder come de dogs."   
"Let me in! Let me in! Hide me in the box! The dogs will catch me!" said 
the wolf. The pig did so, but he got angry and began to put holes in the 
box.   
"What are you doing? " said the wolf. "Putting holes so you can get air," 
said the pig.   
"Oh, indeed!" said the wolf.   
When the pig got the holes in the box, he put on some water. When it was 
very hot, he said, "Don't you want some cool water poured on yo' to mek 
yo' feel good?"   
"Yes," said the wolf. So the pig po'ed hot water on him and killed him. 
 
 Version B 
 A long time ago Brer Wolf and Brer Rabbit were good friends, but for some 
reason or other they became deadly enemies. Brer Wolf decided to do Brer 
Rabbit harm. Brer Rabbit staid in his house most of the time, so Brer Wolf 
couldn't get at him. Wolf, however, thought of a way to get him out by 
stratagem. He knew that Brer Rabbit liked fruit: so he went to Brer 
Rabbit's door one night, and told him he knew where some fine large apples 
grew, and asked him if he would like to go and get some.   
Brer Rabbit very politely accepted the invitation, and agreed to go for 
the apples next morning at five o'clock. Brer Wolf trotted off home to 
dream of the sweet revenge he was going to have on Brer Rabbit, but Brer 
Rabbit was on to his tricks.   
Promptly at three o'clock he went after his apples, and was back quite a 
while before five o'clock. As the clocks struck five, Brer Wolf tapped on 
the door. "Are you ready to go for dem apples, Brer Rabbit?" says 'e.   
Brer Rabbit says, "La', Brer Wolf, my watch said five o'clock long 'go, 
and I thought you wasn't comin', so Ise done been."   
Brer Wolf was so mad he couldn't stand still; but he did not give up his 
hope for revenge, so he told Brer Rabbit 'bout some peaches which were 
farther away from Brer Rabbit's house than the apples. Brer Rabbit gladly 
consented to go, this time at four o'clock; but when Brer Wolf came after 
him next morning, he had been fooled again, and Brer Rabbit was inside 
enjoying his peaches.   
This time Brer Wolf was so mad dat his har turned gray, but he wouldn't 
give up. He decided to send Brer Rabbit on a fool's errand: so he told him 
about some fine pears. They grew on a distant hill very far away. There 
wa'n't no pears dere at all. Brer Wolf jest want to get Brer Rabbit out of 
his house one more time. They agreed to go at three o'clock this time.   
Brer Rabbit started out ahead of time, as usual; but Brer Wolf, who had 
caught on to him, started out early too. He first caught sight of Brer 
Rabbit sittin' on de hill resting, den he kinder laughed up his sleeve 
when he thought how tired he must be from walking so far, an' how mad he 
must be for bein' fooled. After waiting a while, so's to catch his wind, 
he started out as if to speak to Brer Rabbit.   
Brer Rabbit knew there was trouble in the wind: so, as soon as he saw Brer 
Wolf comin', he made a break for home. Right down de hill he went, and 
Brer Wolf started right behind him. It was a race for life; and Brer 
Rabbit did his level best, while old Brer Wolf was equal to the occasion. 
They ran through cornfields, through woods and across fields, 'til they 
got in sight of Brer Rabbit's house. The sight of the house gave Brer 
Rabbit new courage and strength; so that he made a final break, and got in 
the house and locked the door just as Brer Wolf rushed 'ginst it.   
Brer Wolf tried all of his force to open the door; and as he failed, he 
decided to come down the chimney. Brer Rabbit had no intention of letting 
any one come down the chimney after him: so he just set a big kettle of 
boiling water right under the chimney; and when Brer Wolf dropped down, he 
went smack into the kettle. Den Brer Rabbit slapped on de cover, and he 
had Brer Wolf just where he wanted him.   
Brer Wolf make all kinds of whining entreaties for Brer Rabbit to let him 
out, but it wasn't no better for him. Brer Rabbit made a fine stew of Brer 
Wolf, and eat applesauce and peaches along with him. After this he went 
after fruit whenever he got ready, without fear of being caught by Brer 
Wolf.