Once upon a time in mid winter, when the snowflakes were falling like
feathers from heaven, a beautiful queen sat sewing at her window, which
had a frame of black ebony wood. As she sewed, she looked up at the snow
and pricked her finger with her needle. Three drops of blood fell into the
snow. The red on the white looked so beautiful, that she thought, "If only
I had a child as white as snow, as red as blood, and as black as this
frame." Soon afterward she had a little daughter that was as white as
snow, as red as blood, and as black as ebony wood, and therefore they
called her Little Snow-White.
 Now the queen was the most beautiful woman in all the land, and very
proud of her beauty. She had a mirror, which she stood in front of every
morning, and asked:
 Mirror, mirror, on the wall, 
Who in this land is fairest of all? 
 And the mirror always said:
 You, my queen, are fairest of all. 
 And then she knew for certain that no one in the world was more
beautiful than she.
 Now Snow-White grew up, and when she was seven years old, she was so
beautiful, that she surpassed even the queen herself. Now when the queen
asked her mirror:
 Mirror, mirror, on the wall, 
Who in this land is fairest of all? 
 The mirror said:
 You, my queen, are fair; it is true. 
But Little Snow-White is still 
A thousand times fairer than you. 
 When the queen heard the mirror say this, she became pale with envy,
and from that hour on, she hated Snow-White. Whenever she looked at her,
she thought that Snow-White was to blame that she was no longer the most
beautiful woman in the world. This turned her heart around. Her jealousy
gave her no peace. Finally she summoned a huntsman and said to him, "Take
Snow-White out into the woods to a remote spot, and stab her to death. As
proof that she is dead bring her lungs and her liver back to me. I shall
cook them with salt and eat them."
 The huntsman took Snow-White into the woods. When he took out his
hunting knife to stab her, she began to cry, and begged fervently that he
might spare her life, promising to run away into the woods and never
return. The huntsman took pity on her because she was so beautiful, and he
thought, "The wild animals will soon devour her anyway. I'm glad that I
don't have to kill her." Just then a young boar came running by. He killed
it, cut out its lungs and liver, and took them back to the queen as proof
of Snow-White's death. She cooked them with salt and ate them, supposing
that she had eaten Snow-White's lungs and liver.
 Snow-White was now all alone in the great forest. She was terribly
afraid, and began to run. She ran over sharp stones and through thorns the
entire day. Finally, just as the sun was about to set, she came to a
little house. The house belonged to seven dwarfs. They were working in a
mine, and not at home. Snow-White went inside and found everything to be
small, but neat and orderly. There was a little table with seven little
plates, seven little spoons, seven little knives and forks, seven little
mugs, and against the wall there were seven little beds, all freshly made.
 Snow-White was hungry and thirsty, so she ate a few vegetables and a
little bread from each little plate, and from each little glass she drank
a drop of wine. Because she was so tired, she wanted to lie down and go to
sleep. She tried each of the seven little beds, one after the other, but
none felt right until she came to the seventh one, and she lay down in it
and fell asleep.
 When night came, the seven dwarfs returned home from the work. They lit
their seven little candles, and saw that someone had been in their house.
 The first one said, "Who has been sitting in my chair?"
 The second one, "Who has been eating from my plate?"
 The third one, "Who has been eating my bread?"
 The fourth one, "Who has been eating my vegetables?"
 The fifth one, "Who has been sticking with my fork?"
 The sixth one, "Who has been cutting with my knife?"
 The seventh one, "Who has been drinking from my mug?"
 Then the first one said, "Who stepped on my bed?"
 The second one, "And someone has been lying in my bed."
 And so forth until the seventh one, and when he looked at his bed, he
found Snow-White lying there, fast asleep. The seven dwarfs all came
running, and they cried out with amazement. They fetched their seven
candles and looked at Snow-White. "Good heaven! Good heaven!" they cried. 
"She is so
beautiful!" They liked her very much. They did not wake her up, but let
her lie there in the bed. The seventh dwarf had to sleep with his
companions, one hour with each one, and then the night was done.
 When Snow-White woke up, they asked her who she was and how she had
found her way to their house. She told them how her mother had tried to
kill her, how the huntsman had spared her life, how she had run the entire
day, finally coming to their house. The dwarfs pitied her and said, "If
you will keep house for us, and cook, sew, make beds, wash, and knit, and
keep everything clean and orderly, then you can stay here, and you'll have
everything that you want. We come home in the evening, and supper must be
ready by then, but we spend the days digging for gold in the mine. You
will be alone then. Watch out for the queen, and do not let anyone in."
 The queen thought that she was again the most beautiful woman in the
land, and the next morning she stepped before the mirror and asked:
 Mirror, mirror, on the wall, 
Who in this land is fairest of all? 
 The mirror answered once again:
 You, my queen, are fair; it is true. 
But Little Snow-White beyond the seven mountains 
Is a thousand times fairer than you. 
 It startled the queen to hear this, and she knew that she had been
deceived, that the huntsman had not killed Snow-White. Because only the
seven dwarfs lived in the seven mountains, she knew at once that they must
have rescued her. She began to plan immediately how she might kill her,
because she would have no peace until the mirror once again said that she
was the most beautiful woman in the land. At last she thought of something
to do. She disguised herself as an old peddler woman and colored her face,
so that no one would recognize her, and went to the dwarf's house.
Knocking on the door she called out, "Open up. Open up. I'm the old
peddler woman with good wares for sale."
 Snow-White peered out the window, "What do you have?"
 "Bodice laces, dear child," said the old woman, and held one up. It was
braided from yellow, red, and blue silk. "Would you like this one?"
 "Oh, yes," said Snow-White, thinking, "I can let the old woman come in.
She means well." She unbolted the door and bargained for the bodice laces.
 "You are not laced up properly," said the old woman. "Come here, I'll
do it better." Snow-White stood before her, and she took hold of the laces
and pulled them so tight that Snow-White could not breathe, and she fell
down as if she were dead. Then the old woman was satisfied, and she went
away.
 Nightfall soon came, and the seven dwarfs returned home. They were
horrified to find their dear Snow-White lying on the ground as if she were
dead. They lifted her up and saw that she was laced up too tightly. They
cut the bodice laces in two, and then she could breathe, and she came back
to life. "It must have been the queen who tried to kill you," they said.
"Take care and do not let anyone in again."
 The queen asked her mirror:
 Mirror, mirror, on the wall, 
Who in this land is fairest of all? 
 The mirror answered once again:
 You, my queen, are fair; it is true. 
But Little Snow-White with the seven dwarfs 
Is a thousand times fairer than you. 
 She was so horrified that the blood all ran to her heart, because she
knew that Snow-White had come back to life. Then for an entire day and a
night she planned how she might catch her. She made a poisoned comb,
disguised herself differently, and went out again. She knocked on the
door, but Snow-White called out, "I am not allowed to let anyone in."
 Then she pulled out the comb, and when Snow-White saw how it glistened,
and noted that the woman was a complete stranger, she opened the door, and
bought the comb from her. "Come, let me comb your hair," said the peddler
woman. She had barely stuck the comb into Snow-White's hair, before the
girl fell down and was dead. "That will keep you lying there," said the
queen. And she went home with a light heart.
 The dwarfs came home just in time. They saw what had happened and
pulled the poisoned comb from her hair. Snow-White opened her eyes and
came back to life. She promised the dwarfs not to let anyone in again.
 The queen stepped before her mirror:
 Mirror, mirror, on the wall, 
Who in this land is fairest of all? 
 The mirror answered:
 You, my queen, are fair; it is true. 
But Little Snow-White with the seven dwarfs 
Is a thousand times fairer than you. 
 When the queen heard this, she shook and trembled with anger,
"Snow-White will die, if it costs me my life!" Then she went into her most
secret room -- no one else was allowed inside -- and she made a poisoned,
poisoned apple. From the outside it was red and beautiful, and anyone who
saw it would want it. Then she disguised herself as a peasant woman, went
to the dwarfs' house and knocked on the door.
 Snow-White peeped out and said, "I'm not allowed to let anyone in. The
dwarfs have forbidden it most severely."
 "If you don't want to, I can't force you," said the peasant woman. "I
am selling these apples, and I will give you one to taste."
 "No, I can't accept anything. The dwarfs don't want me to."
 "If you are afraid, then I will cut the apple in two and eat half of
it. Here, you eat the half with the beautiful red cheek!" Now the apple
had been so artfully made that only the red half was poisoned. When
Snow-White saw that the peasant woman was eating part of the apple, her
desire for it grew stronger, so she finally let the woman hand her the
other half through the window. She bit into it, but she barely had the
bite in her mouth when she fell to the ground dead.
 The queen was happy, went home, and asked her mirror:
 Mirror, mirror, on the wall, 
Who in this land is fairest of all? 
 And it answered:
 You, my queen, are fairest of all. 
 "Now I'll have some peace," she said, "because once again I'm the most
beautiful woman in the land. Snow-White will remain dead this time."
 That evening the dwarfs returned home from the mines. Snow-White was
lying on the floor, and she was dead. They loosened her laces and looked
in her hair for something poisonous, but nothing helped. They could not
bring her back to life. They laid her on a bier, and all seven sat next to
her and cried and cried for three days. They were going to bury her, but
they saw that she remained fresh. She did not look at all like a dead
person, and she still had beautiful red cheeks. They had a glass coffin
made for her, and laid her inside, so that she could be seen easily. They
wrote her name and her ancestry on it in gold letters, and one of them
always stayed at home and kept watch over her.
 Snow-White lay there in the coffin a long, long time, and she did not
decay. She was still as white as snow and as red as blood, and if she had
been able to open her eyes, they still would have been as black as ebony
wood. She lay there as if she were asleep.
 One day a young prince came to the dwarfs' house and wanted shelter for
the night. When he came into their parlor and saw Snow-White lying there
in a glass coffin, illuminated so beautifully by seven little candles, he
could not get enough of her beauty. He read the golden inscription and saw
that she was the daughter of a king. He asked the dwarfs to sell him the
coffin with the dead Snow-White, but they would not do this for any amount
of gold. Then he asked them to give her to him, for he could not live
without being able to see her, and he would keep her, and honor her as his
most cherished thing on earth. Then the dwarfs took pity on him and gave
him the coffin.
 The prince had it carried to his castle, and had it placed in a room
where he sat by it the whole day, never taking his eyes from it. Whenever
he had to go out and was unable to see Snow-White, he became sad. And he
could not eat a bite, unless the coffin was standing next to him. Now the
servants who always had to carry the coffin to and fro became angry about
this. One time one of them opened the coffin, lifted Snow-White upright,
and said, "We are plagued the whole day long, just because of such a dead
girl," and he hit her in the back with his hand. Then the terrible piece
of apple that she had bitten off came out of her throat, and Snow-White
came back to life. 
 She walked up to the prince, who was beside himself with joy to see his
beloved Snow-White alive. They sat down together at the table and ate with
joy.
 Their wedding was set for the next day, and Snow-White's godless mother
was invited as well. That morning she stepped before the mirror and said:
 Mirror, mirror, on the wall, 
Who in this land is fairest of all? 
The mirror answered: 
You, my queen, are fair; it is true. 
But the young queen 
Is a thousand times fairer than you. 
 She was horrified to hear this, and so overtaken with fear that she
could not say anything. Still, her jealousy drove her to go to the wedding
and see the young queen. When she arrived she saw that it was Snow-White.
Then they put a pair of iron shoes into the fire until they glowed, and
she had to put them on and dance in them. Her feet were terribly burned,
and she could not stop until she had danced herself to death.