There was once a merchant who had three daughters. The two older ones
were proud and haughty. The younger one, however, was well behaved and
modest, although her beauty greatly surpassed that of her sisters. She
dressed simply, and thus unconsciously enhanced her beauty more than her
sisters were able to do with the most expensive clothing and jewelry.
 Nettchen, that was the name of the merchant's youngest daughter, had a
dear girlfriend who was very poor, but equally beautiful and virtuous. She
was a broom binder's daughter, and was for this reason was called Little
Broomstick by young and old alike. Both girls were of one heart and one
soul. They entrusted one another with their little secrets, and between
them all class distinctions fell by the wayside. This angered the older
sisters greatly, but Nettchen let them scold, and loved her Little
Broomstick nonetheless.
 Once the merchant was planning a long journey, although the season was
already very advanced. He asked his daughters if they had a wish as to
what he should bring home to them.
 The oldest one said, "Bring me a golden necklace!"
 The second, "Bring me a pair of earrings that are so beautiful that all
women be envious of me because of them!"
 The youngest said that she had no wish, because her father, in his
goodness, had already given her everything. But the merchant insisted, so
she answered with a smile, "Then bring me three roses growing on one
stem."
 She was convinced that her father would not be able to find such a
present in the middle of winter. He kissed her for her modesty and set
forth on his journey.
 He was on his way home when he remembered the presents that he was
supposed to get for his daughters. He soon found a golden necklace and a
pair of splendid earrings, but not so the three roses for Nettchen. The
father had just decided to buy some other valuable present for his
darling, when suddenly -- to his surprise -- he came upon a green area. He
stepped through a wide gateway and found himself in a large, blossoming
garden adjacent to a splendid castle. Outside everything was covered with
snow, but in the garden the trees were in blossom, nightingales were
singing in the bushes, and finally he even saw a blossoming rosebush, and
on one of its branches were three of the most beautiful half-open buds.
Elated, he thought that now he would be able to fulfill Nettchen's wish,
and he broke off the branch.
 He had scarcely done so when an enormous beast with a long ugly snout,
ears hanging down, and a shaggy coat and tail appeared before him and laid
his long sharp claws on his shoulder. The merchant was deathly frightened,
and even worse when the beast began to speak, threatening him with death
for his misdeed.
 The merchant begged, telling him why he wanted the roses, whereupon the
beast answered, "Your youngest daughter must be a true pearl of her sex.
Very well, if you will promise to give her to me as a wife in seven
months, then you shall live and return to your people."
 As terrified as the merchant was at this proposal, his fear
nevertheless led him to make the promise, thinking that he would be able
to trick the monster.
 The merchant returned to his people and distributed the presents.
However, he was sad and melancholy, and they noticed that he was carrying
a great burden in his heart. Nettchen asked him to tell her what was
troubling him, but he only gave her excuses. He told the secret only to
the two older daughters, who wickedly took pleasure in the situation.
 So that the father could keep his eyes on her, Nettchen was almost
never allowed to leave the house. Only Little Broomstick came to visit her
from time to time.
 One day -- the seventh month had just passed -- she and Little
Broomstick were again together when a carriage stopped before the house. A
servant, gesturing silently, handed a note to the merchant. On it were
written the words, "Fulfill your promise!"
 The merchant was terrified, but he collected himself and asked Little
Broomstick to come to him. The girl came, expecting nothing bad. The
merchant pointed at her. She was lifted into the carriage, and away they
went in a thundering gallop.
 However, the beast recognized the deception as soon as Little
Broomstick was brought before him, and he ordered the girl to go home
immediately and bring back the right one. The carriage stopped again
before the merchant's house, and when Little Broomstick stepped out,
Nettchen fell around her neck with friendly greetings. But then she was
picked up and shoved into the carriage, which drove away with its booty as
fast as an arrow.
 Nettchen was very frightened, but she soon collected herself. Inside
the strange, beautiful castle she was received with honor, although with
silent gestures, and she no longer felt concerned. Silent servants brought
her the most delicious things to eat and showed her to a bedroom, where a
blinding white canopy bed invited her to rest. After saying her prayers,
she surrendered to the arms of sleep.
 When she awoke she saw to her fright that a disgusting shaggy monster
lay next to her. But it was lying there still and quiet, so she left it
alone. Then it left, and she had time to think about her adventure.
 The ugly beast gradually became her sleeping companion, and she grew
less and less afraid of him. He cuddled up to her, and she stroked his
shaggy coat and even allowed him to touch her lips with his long, cold
snout. This had gone on for four weeks when one night the beast did not
come to her. Nettchen could not sleep for worry and concern about what
might have happened to the beast, whom she had become quite fond of.
 The next morning she was walking in the garden when she saw the beast
lying all stretched out on the bank of a pond that served as a bath. He
did not move a limb and showed every sign of being dead. A bitter pain
penetrated her breast, and she cried over the death of the poor beast. But
her tears had scarcely started to flow when the monster was transformed
into a handsome youth.
 He stood up before her, pressed her hand to his breast, and said, "You
have redeemed me from a terrible curse. My father wanted me to marry a
woman whom I did not love. I refused steadfastly, and in his anger, my
father had a sorceress transform me into a monster. The transformation was
to last until an innocent virgin would fall in love with me in spite of my
ugly form, and would cry tears on my behalf. You with your heart of an
angel have done just that, and I cannot thank you enough. If you will
become my wife, I will repay with love what you have done for me."
 Nettchen extended him her hand, and they were married. Then the deathly
quiet castle awoke in a hustle and bustle. Joy ruled everywhere, and the
newlyweds lived in bliss.
 Now the young wife had been given the requirement that she not return
to her father's house for one year. However, she obtained a mirror in
which she could see everything that was happening in her family circle.
Nettchen looked into the mirror often, and she saw her father in his
sorrow, although her sisters were cheerful and gay. She observed Little
Broomstick as well, and how she mourned for her lost girlfriend. She did
not look into the mirror for some time, and when she returned to it, she
saw her father on his deathbed and her sisters in the next room making
merry with their friends.
 This saddened the good sister, and she confided her sorrow with her
husband. He comforted her, saying, "Your father will not die. In my garden
there is a plant whose sap can call back the fleeing life-spirits. The
year is nearly over. Then we will fetch your father, and you will not have
to be separated from him any longer."
 Nettchen was pleased with this, and as soon as the year had passed, the
husband and wife and their magnificent entourage journeyed to Nettchen's
home city. The two older sisters nearly burst with envy and anger, while
the father's joy brought back his health, so that evil turned to good. The
sap restored his full strength and wellbeing. Little Broomstick too was
overjoyed, and Nettchen was her old girlfriend once again. She and the
merchant accompanied them back to the prince's castle.
 Nettchen had a forgiving heart, and however much she had been hurt by
her sisters, she wanted to share her good fortune with them. Therefore she
invited them to visit her, and showed them all her wealth. However, the
splendor angered the sisters, and they resolved to kill their happy
sister. Once when they were in the bath, they forced Nettchen under the
water, and she drowned.
 They had scarcely done this when a tall female figure rose up before
them and glared at them with angry eyes. She touched the dead woman with a
wand, and she came back to life. "I am the sorceress who once transformed
the prince," said the tall figure. I have noted your good heart and taken
you under my protection. These miserable ones killed you. Now I leave
their fate in your hands!"
 Nettchen begged for mercy for them, but the sorceress shook her head
and said, "They must die, for you will never be safe from their malice,
and as soon as they have been punished, my power will cease."
 "Then do with them what you will!" sobbed Nettchen.
 "Let them be transformed into columns and remain such until a man falls
in love with them, and that will never happen."
 She touched the sisters with her hand, and they were immediately
transformed into two stone columns, which to this day are still standing
in the garden of the splendid castle, for it has not yet occurred to any
man that he should fall in love with cold, heartless stones.
 The good Little Broomstick remained Nettchen's most faithful
girlfriend. She still shares her good fortune with her, if in the meantime
the two of them have not died.