Loki and the Master Builder 
 The Prose Edda  of Snorri Sturluson (Iceland) 
In the early days of the settlement of the gods, when they had 
established Midgard and made Valhalla, a builder came to them and
offered to make a stronghold so excellent that it would be safe and secure
against cliff giants and frost ogres, even if they got inside Midgard. 
He stipulated that as his reward he was to have Freyja as his wife and possession of the
sun and moon besides. 
The Æsir had a conference, and they struck this bargain with the builder.  He should receive what he asked for, if he succeeded in building the stronghold in one winter.  But
if, on the first day of summer, any part of it was unfinished, he was to
forfeit his reward; nor was he to receive anyone's help in the work. 
When they told him these terms, however, he asked them to let him have the
help of his horse, which was called Svadilfari, and acting on the advice
of Loki, the gods granted this to him. 
He began building the stronghold the first day of winter, and by night
used his horse for hauling the stones for it.  The Æsir were
astonished at the size of the huge boulders the horse hauled.  It
performed twice as much of that tremendous task as the builder. 
Now there were strong witnesses to their bargain.  It had been confirmed
with many oaths, because the giant had not considered it safe to be among
the Æsir without promise of safe-conduct, if Thor should come home.  At that time he had
gone into the east to fight trolls. 
As winter drew to an end, the building of the stronghold had made good
progress.  It was so high and strong that it could not be taken.  By three
days before summer the work was almost finished. 
The gods then sat down in their judgment seats and sought for a way out.
They recalled that it had been Loki who had given the advice to marry
Freyja into Giantland and also to ruin the sky and heaven by giving the
sun and moon to the giants.  They threatened him with an evil death if he
did not devise a plan whereby the builder would forfeit his wages.  Loki
swore that he would do this, no matter what it might cost him. 
That same evening, when the builder was driving out after stones with his
stallion Svadilfari, a mare ran out of a wood up to the horse and whinnied
to him.  The stallion became frantic and ran into the wood after the mare.
The two these horses galloped about all night, and the work was
delayed. 
The next day, when the builder saw that the work would not be finished, he
flew into a rage.  As soon as the Æsir saw for certain that it was a
giant who had come there, they disregarded their oaths and called on
Thor. 
He came at once and raised the hammer Mjölnir aloft.  Thor paid the
builder his wages, and it was not the sun and the moon.  He struck him
such a blow that his skull shivered into fragments, and he sent him down
to Niflhel. 
Loki, however, had had such dealings with Svadilfari that some time later
he bore a foal.  It was gray and had eight legs, and amongst gods and men
that horse is the best.