Once a poor cottager lived with his wife in a lonely hut outside the 
village. The man's name was Loppi, and the woman's name was Lappi. It 
seems as though both of them had been born into misfortune, for nothing 
went well for them. In the earlier years of their marriage God had given 
them children, but none of them were still alive to support the parents in 
their old age.   
Every evening husband and wife sat next to the stove like two dried-up 
tree stumps, and often, for no reason at all, their bitterness spilled 
over, and they quarreled. As everyone knows, unfortunate people usually 
try to push their own guilt onto others, and even if they are not 
willfully evil, they blame others for their own bad luck.   
Thus Loppi often angrily said, "If only I had had the good luck to marry a 
better woman, I would have lacked nothing. Today I could have been a 
wealthy man."     
Lappi had an even quicker tongue, and for every one of her husband's 
words, she came back with a dozen of her own. "Just look at you, you 
stupid lout! Of course it is partially my fault that in my child-like 
simplicity I did not know enough to choose a better husband, but there 
must have been witchcraft involved to make me turn to you. Only the devil 
knows what you secretly put into my food or drink. I had plenty of 
suitors, and if I had not settled for you, you miserable creature, today I 
could be a lady seated at a full table. It is your fault, you worthless 
man, that I'll be suffering from hunger and sorrow until I die. And it is 
also your fault that all our children have died, because you did not know 
how to take care of a wife and children."   
This stream of words gushed forth, not ceasing until the husband stopped 
her mouth with his fist.   
One evening the couple were again quarrelling in their hut when a stately 
woman dressed in clothes of German cut stepped inside. Her appearance 
brought the wife's tongue to a standstill, and caused the husband to lower 
his raised arm.   
After a friendly greeting, the strange woman said, "You are poor wretches 
and until now have suffered much. However, three days from now your misery 
will suddenly end. Therefore keep peace in your house, and decide what 
destiny you would best choose for yourselves. I am not a human, as I 
appear to you, but rather a higher being who, through God's power, can 
cause wishes to be fulfilled. You have three days' time for consideration, 
and then you may state three wishes that you desire. Say your wishes 
aloud, and in the same instant they will come true through magic power. 
But be careful not to wish for unnecessary things."   
Following these words, the stately woman greeting them once again, then 
disappeared out the door in a flash.   
Loppi and Lappi, who had now forgotten their quarrel, stared speechlessly 
out the door through which the miraculous vision had entered and 
disappeared. Finally the husband said, "Let's go to bed now. We have three 
days to think about this. We want to use these wishes wisely, so we can 
get the best luck for ourselves."   
Although they had three days for consideration, they spent more than half 
the night burdened with thoughts of which wish would be the very best. Oh, 
what precious freedom ruled in the hut without interruption for the next 
three days! Loppi and Lappi had become different people. They spoke 
together friendlily, and looked after one another's needs. They spent the 
greatest part of each day sitting quietly in the corner thinking about 
what they should wish for.   
On the third day Loppi went into the village, where that morning a swine 
had been slaughtered, and the sausage kettle must just now be standing on 
the fire. He took with him the butter pot, with its lid, wanting to ask 
his neighbor's wife for sausage water to cook his cabbage in that evening. 
Loppi felt that they would be able to think better if their stomachs were 
filled with good food. Arriving home he put the cabbage on the fire so 
their meal would be ready at the right time.   
Evening arrived, and with it the time when they could make their wishes. 
The pot of cabbage soup was steaming on the table, and husband and wife 
sat down to eat. Now they could have their wishes fulfilled. They had 
already eaten several spoonfuls of the tasty soup when Lappi said, 
contentedly, "Thanks be to God for this good soup. It will fill us up 
nicely, but it would taste even better if we only had a sausage to go with 
it!"   
Bang! A large sausage fell from above onto the middle of the table. For a 
while husband and wife were so startled that it did not occur to them to 
eat the sausage. Loppi remarked that with the sausage their first wish had 
been fulfilled, and that so angered him that he shouted, "May the Evil One 
grab you and stick this sausage onto your nose! If...."   
But the poor man was too frightened to continue speaking, for the sausage 
was already hanging from Lappi's nose, not like a normal sausage, but like 
a piece of flesh growing out of the nose. What could they do now? Two 
wishes had already been wasted, and the second one had so misshapen the 
woman that she would not dare to be seen by other people. They still had 
one wish that had not been stated, and with this one they could set 
everything right. At this moment poor Lappi had no other desire than to 
free herself from the long sausage, so she said this wish aloud, and the 
sausage disappeared.   
Now all three wishes were gone, and Loppi and Lappi had to continue living 
poorly in their hut. For some time afterward they expected the beautiful 
woman to return, but the stranger never appeared again. Whoever fails to 
take immediate advantage of unexpected luck will lose it forever.