Once upon a time there was a man whose wife died, and he had only a little 
daughter, whose name was Maria.   
Maria went to school to a woman who taught her sewing and knitting. In the 
evening when she left for home the woman would always say to her, "Give 
your father my kindest greetings."   
Because of these friendly greetings the man thought, "She would be a wife 
for me," and he married the woman.   
After they were married, the woman became very unfriendly toward poor 
Maria, for stepmothers have always been that way, and with time she could 
not stand her at all.   
Then she said to her husband, "The girl eats too much of our bread. We 
will have to get rid of her."   
But the man said, "I cannot kill my child!"   
Then the woman said, "Tomorrow take her with you out into the country and 
leave her there alone, so that she will not be able to find her way back 
home."   
The next day the man called his daughter and said to her, "We are going 
out into the country. We will take something to eat with us."   
Then he got a large loaf of bread, and they set forth. However, Maria was 
clever, and she filled her pockets with bran. As she walked along behind 
her father, from time to time she threw down a little pile of bran onto 
the pathway. After walking for many hours they came to the  top of a steep 
cliff. Her father dropped the loaf of bread over the cliff, then cried 
out, "Oh, Maria, our bread fell down there!"   
"Father," said Maria, "I will climb down and get it."   
So she climbed down the cliff and got the bread, but by the time she had 
climbed back up to the top, her father had gone away, and Maria was all 
alone.   
She started to cry, for she was very far from home, and in a strange 
place. But then she thought about the bran and took courage. Following the 
bran, she finally arrived home again, late that night.   
"Oh, father," she said, "why did you leave me alone?"  
The man comforted her and talked to her until he had reassured her.    
The stepmother was very angry that Maria had found the way back, and some 
time later she again told her husband that he should take Maria out into 
the country and abandon her in the woods.   
The next morning the man called his daughter once again, and they set 
forth. The father again carried a loaf of bread, but Maria forgot to take 
the bran with her. In the woods they came to an even steeper and higher 
cliff. The father again dropped the bread over the edge, and Maria had to 
climb down to get it. When she arrived back at the top, her father had 
gone away, and she was alone. She began to cry bitterly, and she ran one 
way and the other for a long time, only to find herself even deeper in the 
dark woods.   
Evening came, and suddenly she saw a light. She walked toward it and came 
to a little house. Inside she found a set table and seven beds, but no 
people were there.   
The house belonged to seven robbers.   
Maria hid behind a dough trough, and soon the seven robbers returned home. 
They ate and drank, and then went to bed. The next morning they left, but 
the youngest brother remained at home in order to cook the food and clean 
the house. After they had left, the youngest brother went out to buy food. 
Then Maria came out from behind the dough trough, swept and cleaned the 
house, and then put the kettle on the fire in order to cook the beans. 
Then once again she hid behind the dough trough.   
When the youngest brother returned home he was amazed to see everything so 
clean, and when his brothers came back, he told them what had happened. 
They were all astonished and could not imagine how it had happened. The 
next day the second brother remained at home alone. He pretended that he 
too was going away, but he returned at once and saw Maria, who had come 
out once again to clean up the house.   
Maria was frightened when she saw the robber. "Oh," she begged, " for 
heaven's sake, do not kill me!"   
"Who are you?" asked the robber.   
Then she told him about her wicked stepmother, and how her father had 
abandoned her in the woods, and how for two days she had been hiding 
behind the dough trough.   
"You don't have to be afraid of us," said the robber. "Stay here with us 
and be our sister, and cook, sew, and wash for us."   
When the other brothers returned home, they were satisfied with this, so 
Maria stayed with the seven robbers, did their housekeeping, and was 
always quiet and diligent.   
One day as she was sitting by the window sewing, a poor old woman came by 
and asked for alms.   
"Oh," said Maria, "I don't have much, for I myself am a poor, unhappy 
girl, but I will give you what I have."   
"Why are you so unhappy?" asked the beggar woman.   
Then Maria told her how she had left home and had come here. The poor 
woman went forth and told the wicked stepmother that Maria was still 
alive. When the stepmother heard this she was very angry, and she gave the 
beggar woman a ring that she was to take to poor Maria. The ring was a 
magic ring.   
Eight days later the poor woman came again to Maria to beg for alms, and 
when Maria gave her something, she said, "Look, my child, I have here a 
beautiful ring. Because you have been so good to me, I want to give it to 
you."   
Suspecting nothing, Maria took the ring, but when she put it on her finger 
she fell down dead.   
When the robbers returned home and found Maria on the floor, they were 
very sad, and they cried bitterly for her. Then they made a beautiful 
coffin and laid Maria inside it, after having adorned her with the most 
beautiful jewelry. They also put a large amount of gold in the coffin, 
which they then set on an oxcart. They drove the oxcart into the city. 
When they came to the king's castle they saw that the stall door was wide 
open. They drove the oxen inside, in order to bring the cart into the 
stall. This caused the horses to become very uneasy, and they began 
rearing up and making noise.   
Hearing the noise, the king sent someone down to ask the stall-master what 
had happened. The stall-master answered that a cart had been driven into 
the stall. No one was with the cart, but on it there was a beautiful 
coffin.   
The king ordered that the coffin be brought to his room, and there he had 
it opened. When he saw the beautiful dead girl inside, he began to cry 
bitterly, and he could not leave her. He had four large wax candles 
brought and had them placed at the four corners of the coffin and lit. 
Then he sent everyone out of the room, barred the door, fell onto his 
knees before the coffin, and wept hot tears.   
When it was time to eat, his mother sent for him, asking him to come. He 
did not answer at once, but instead wept all the more fervently. Then the 
old queen herself came and knocked on the door and asked him to open it, 
but he did not answer. She looked through the keyhole, and when she saw 
that her son was kneeling next to a corpse, she had the door broken down. 
  
However, when she saw the beautiful girl, she herself was very moved, and 
she leaned over Maria and took her hand. Seeing the beautiful ring, she 
thought that it would be a shame to let it be buried along with the 
corpse, so she pulled it off. Then all at once the dead Maria came to life 
again.   
The young king said joyfully to his mother, "This girl shall be my 
wife!"  
The old queen answered, "Yes, so shall it be!" and she embraced Maria.  
Thus Maria became the king's wife, and the queen. They lived joyfully and 
in splendor until they died.