Through acts of generosity and the costs of waging war, Saladin
depleted his treasury. Caught by a sudden need for money, he thought of a
wealthy Jew, Melchizedek by name, who lived in Alexandria. But Melchizedek
had a reputation for miserliness, and he would never voluntarily surrender
the vast sum needed by Saladin, nor was the Sultan prepared to take the
money by force. At last Saladin devised a plan whereby he would embarrass
the wealthy Jew, who would then redeem himself with money. 
 Accordingly, Saladin summoned Melchizedek to his palace, then stated,
"Men speak highly of your wisdom. What conclusion have you reached
concerning the ways of God? Which of the three great religions is the
truly authentic one? Judaism, Christianity, or Islam?" 
 Sensing that with this question Saladin was seeking to lead him into an
unwinnable quarrel and thus gain advantage over him, Melchizedek answered,
"That is an excellent question, my lord. I can best explain my views on
the subject with the following story:" 
 
 I have heard that there was once a wealthy man whose most prized
possession was a precious ring. He bequeathed this ring to one of his
sons, and by this sign, the latter was known as the head of family.
Succeeding generations followed this tradition, with the principal heir
always inheriting the cherished ring from his father. But, to make a long
story short, the ring finally came into the possession of a man who had
three sons, each the equal of the others in obedience, virtue, and
worthiness. Unwilling to favor one son over the others, the father had a
master artisan make two copies of the valued ring, and he bequeathed a
ring to each son. 
 Following the father's death, each son laid claim to the deceased man's
title and estate, showing the inherited ring as proof. However, a careful
inspection of the three rings could not reveal which of them was the
authentic one, so the three sons' claims remain unresolved. 
 The same is true with the three great religions, Judaism, Christianity,
and Islam. The adherents of each religion consider themselves to be the
legitimate heirs of God's truth. But as was the case with the rings, their
claims too remain unresolved. 
 
 Saladin, recognizing that the Jew had escaped his trap, decided to ask
him directly for a loan. Melchizedek gladly provided him with the sum he
needed. The Sultan later repaid the debt in full, and Saladin and
Melchizedek remained friends as long as they lived.