In Baden there is a forest named Stollenwald, and in this forest, atop
Stollenberg Mountain, are the ruins of an old castle. Stauffenberg Palace
stands nearby. In this palace there once lived a magistrate's son who took
great pleasure in capturing birds. One day he went into the woods to trap
titmice. There he heard a beautiful voice descending from Stollenberg
mountain. Following it, he saw the most lovely image of a woman, which
called out to him: 
 Redeem me, redeem me! 
Just kiss me three times three! 
 "Who are you then?" called the youth, and the specter said: 
 Melusina is my name, 
The daughter of heavenly song! 
Early in the ninth hour, 
Fearlessly kiss my mouth and my cheeks, 
Then I shall be redeemed, 
And be with you, my beloved bridegroom! 
 Looking at the miraculous being more closely, the youth saw that
Melusina had a marvelously beautiful face, blue eyes, and blond hair. Her
upper body too was wonderfully proportioned, but not her hands and feet.
Her hands had no fingers, resembling instead small open bags, and she had
no feet at all, but rather a snake's body. Nonetheless, the youth
fearlessly gave the specter the first three kisses. She expressed joy in
this, like the maiden in the heathen's cave with her first kiss, and then
she disappeared. 
 The next morning the lover returned and followed the seductively sweet
song that sounded toward him. Finding her, he saw that she now had wings.
Her snake's body was speckled green and ended with a dragon's tail. But
Melusina's eyes and face emanated such beauty, and her mouth was so
seductive, that he was overcome by desire, and he again gave her three
kisses. She quivered with lust and desire, flapping her wings about his
head. 
 That night the youth could scarcely close his eyes. All his thoughts
were with the glowing, sensuously beautiful figure. Before daybreak he
went into the woods and followed the sweet songful voice. But alas! Where
was the lovely angel face? It was transformed and looked just like the
maiden on the toad-chair, for Melusina now had a toad's head, and the
lover was supposed to kiss it as though nothing had happened. But instead,
he turned his heels and ran away as fast as he could. Behind him he heard
a rushing sound and cries of anguish. 
 He never again went to Stollenberg Mountain. On the contrary, he became
engaged to a girl who, although not as magically beautiful as Melusina,
nonetheless did not have a toad's head and a snake's body. 
 The wedding feast at Stauffenberg Palace was ready, and everyone was
celebrating, when a small crack opened in the ceiling. A dew-like drop 
fell into the serving dish, but no one saw it. And anyone who took a bite
onto which the drop had fallen fell down dead. And from above a small
snake's tail emerged through the crack in the ceiling. 
 That was the end of the wedding celebration. 
 On another occasion Melusina appeared to a shepherd girl. At length she
led the girl into Stollenberg Mountain. Showing her underground treasures,
she told the shepherd girl that they would be hers if she could bring
about her disenchantment. The girl was unable to keep this secret, and the
priest threatened her with church sanctions if she continued to commune
with the specter. This silenced the shepherd girl, and the disenchantment
was not fulfilled. 
 A double fir tree growing from a single root still stands near the
place they call "the twelve stones." It is called "the Melusina tree." 
 In keeping with this Swabian legend, the name Melusina refers not only
to water sprites but to mountain and forest sprites as well.