Bill Robertson, age 71, residing in Lerwick, soberly narrated this 
trustworthy story: 
My mother, God rest her soul, told me this, and she neither could nor 
would have told me a lie.  She was staying with friends at 
Kirgood-a-Weisdale; one night at about twilight the man of the house was 
very concerned, for his honest wife had just had a pretty baby.
 
And now, my lamb that you are, what should he hear just as he was going 
to leave the lamb-house, but three most unearthly knocks, the same as if 
it had been from under the ground.  Now, he didn't know what this could 
be, but he took hold of himself and went up to the corn yard, and as he 
comes in sight of the granary he hears a voice that said three times, 
"Mind the crooked finger."  
 
Now, his wife had a crooked finger, and he knew very well that something 
was going to happen, for his gray neighbors were on the watch for the 
helpless infant, or mother, or both.  So he comes into the house, and 
lights a candle, takes down the Bible, and a steel knife.  He opens the 
book and the knife, when such a roaring and trolling, and unearthly 
stamping and rattling, and confusion comes from the cow-barn that made 
the whole house shake.  And everybody fell a-quaking.  
 
Now, he takes the open Bible, and makes for the cow-barn, and those that 
were in the house follow him trembling and quaking, only the wise-woman 
being left with the poor wife and infant.  Now, when he gets to the door, 
he heaves in the Bible before him, sticks the open knife in his mouth, 
edge outwards, and the burning candle in one of his hands.  That instant 
the trolling was done and the noise and din ceased all of a sudden, and 
the image that had been prepared to put in the place of the poor wife and 
innocent pretty lamb was all that was left in the cow-barn.  
 
"Well," says the man of the house, as he gripped in his arms the very 
likeness of his wife that the trolls had left in the cow-barn, "I've 
taken you, and I'll use you."  Well, he took into the house the image 
left by the trolls, and it had every joint and part of a woman.  And my 
mother told me she saw it, and the honest folk for many a year, and their 
children after them, sat upon the stock, or image, or likeness; and 
things was set on it, and wood was sawn on it.  
 
And that's as true as I'm speaking to you, and not a borrowed or 
handed-down story; for my mother told me it with her own lips, and she 
would not have told me a lie."