One day when Brer Rabbit was going lippity-clippiting down the road, he
meets up with old Brer Terrapin, and after they pass the time of day with
one another, they keep on talking, they did,  until by and by they got to
disputing about which was the swiftest. 
 Brer Rabbit, he says he can outrun Brer Terrapin, and Brer Terrapin, he
just vows that he can outrun Brer Rabbit. Up and down they had it, until
first thing you know, Brer Terrapin says he has a fifty-dollar bill in the
chink of his chimney at home, and that bill done told him that he could
beat Brer Rabbit in a fair race. 
 Then Brer Rabbit says he has a fifty-dollar bill that says that he can
leave Brer Terrapin so far behind that he could sow barley as he went
along, and it would be ripe enough to cut by the time Brer Terrapin passed
that way. 
 Anyhow, they make the bet and put up the money, and old Brer Turkey
Buzzard, he was summoned to be the judge and the stakeholder. And it
wasn't long before all the arrangements were made. The race was a
five-mile heat, and the ground was measured off, and at the end of every
mile a post was stuck up. Brer Rabbit was to run down the big road, and
Brer Terrapin, he says he'd gallop through the woods. Folks told him he
could get along faster in the road, but old Brer Terrapin, he knows what
he's doing. 
 Miss Meadows and the gals and most all the neighbors got wind of the
fun, and when the day was set, they were determined to be on hand. 
 Brer Rabbit, he trains himself every day, and he skips over the ground
just as gaily as a June cricket. 
 Old Brer Terrapin, he lies low in the swamp. He had a wife and three
children, old Brer Terrapin did, and they were all the very spitting image
of the old man. Anybody who knew one from the other had to take a
spyglass, and then they were liable to get fooled. 
 That's the way matters stand until the day of the race, and on that day
old Brer Terrapin and his old woman and his three children, they got up
before sun-up and went to the place. The old woman, she took her stand
near the first milepost, she did, and the children near the others, up to
the last, and there old Brer Terrapin, he took his stand. 
 By and by, here come the folks. Judge Buzzard, he comes, and Miss
Meadows and the gals, they come, and then here comes Brer Rabbit with
ribbons tied around his neck and streaming from his ears. The folks all
went to the other end of the track to see how they would come out. 
 When the time comes, Judge Buzzard struts around and pulls out his
watch and hollers out, "Gents, are you ready?" 
 Brer Rabbit, he says "yes," and old Miss Terrapin hollers "go" from the
edge of the woods. 
 Brer Rabbit, he lit out on the race, and old Miss Terrapin, she put out
for home. Judge Buzzard arose and skimmed along to see that the race was
run fair. 
 When Brer Rabbit got to the first milepost, one of the terrapin
children crawls out of the woods, he does, and makes for the place. 
 Brer Rabbit, he hollers out, "Where are you, Brer Terrapin?" 
 "Here I come a-bulging," says the terrapin. 
 Brer Rabbit is so glad he's ahead that he puts out harder than ever,
and the Terrapin, he makes for home. When he comes to the next post,
another terrapin crawls out of the woods. 
 "Where are you, Brer Terrapin?" says Brer Rabbit. 
 "Here I come a-boiling," says the terrapin. 
 Brer Rabbit, he lit out, he did, and comes to the next post, and there
was the terrapin. Then he comes to the next, and there was the terrapin.
Then he had one more mile to run, and he's wheezing and puffing. By and by
old Brer Terrapin looks way off down the road, and he sees Judge Buzzard
sailing along, and he knows it's time for him to be up. So he scrambles
out of the wood and rolls across the ditch and shuffles through the crowd
of folks and gets to the milepost and crawls behind it. 
 By and by, first thing you know, here comes Brer Rabbit. He looks
around and he don't see Brer Terrapin, and he squalls out, "Give me the
money, Brer Buzzard, give me the money!" 
 Then Miss Meadows and the gals, they holler and laugh fit to kill
themselves, and old Brer Terrapin, he rises up from behind the post and
says, "If you'll give me time to catch my breath, gents and ladies, one
and all, I suspect I'll finger that money myself," he says, and sure
enough, Brer Terrapin ties the purse around his neck and scaddles off
home.