A king had four daughters, and his wife died, and he said he would marry 
anyone whom his dead wife's clothes would fit. One day the daughters 
tried, and the youngest only could wear them.   
The king saw them from a window, and wished to marry her, and she went for 
advice to her mother's brother. He advised her to promise to marry the 
king if he would bring her a gown of birds' down, and a gown of the colors 
of the sky, woven with silver; and when he got that, a gown of the colors 
of the stars, woven with gold, and glass shoes.   
When he had got them, she escaped with all her clothes, by the help of her 
uncle, on a filly, with a magic bridle, she on one side, and her chest of 
clothes on the other. She rode to a king's palace, hid the chest in a hill 
under a bush of rushes, turned the filly loose, and went to the palace 
with nothing on but a white petticoat and a shift. She took service with 
the cook, and grew dirty and ugly, and slept on a bench by the kitchen 
fire, and her work was to blow under the great caldron all day long.   
One day the king's son came home, and was to hold a feast; she went to the 
queen and asked leave to go, and was refused because she was so dirty. The 
queen had a basin of water in her hand, and threw it at her, and it broke. 
She went to the hill, took out the dress of down and silver, and shook her 
magic bridle; the filly came, and she mounted, and rode to the feast.   
The king's son took her by the hand, and took her up as high as any there, 
and set her on his own lap; and when the feast was over, there was no reel 
that he danced but he gave it to her.   
He asked her whence she came, and she said, "From the kingdom of Broken 
Basins," and the prince said that he had never heard of that land, though 
he had travelled far.   
She escaped and returned to the cook, and all were talking about the 
beautiful lady. She asked about her, and was told not to talk about what 
she did not understand, "a dirty little wretch like her."   
Then the prince had another feast; and she asked leave again, and the 
queen refused, and threw a candlestick at her, and it broke, and she did 
as before. She put on another dress and went; the king's son had eight men 
on each side of the door to catch her. The same scene went on, and she 
said she came from the country of Candlesticks, and escaped, leaving a 
glass shoe.   
Then the king's son fell sick (of course), and would only marry the woman 
whom the shoe would fit; and all the ladies came and cut off their toes 
and heels, but in vain. Then he asked if there was none other.   
Then a small creature put his head in at the door and said, "If thou didst 
but know, she whom thou seekest is under the cook."   
Then he got the history of the basin and candlestick from his mother. The 
shoe was tried and fitted, and he was to marry Morag.   
All were in despair, and abused her; but she went out to her chest, shook 
the magic bridle, and arrayed herself, and came back on the filly, with a 
"powney" behind with the chest. Then all there that had despised her fell 
on their knees, and she was married to the prince.   
"And I did not get a bit there at the wedding," said the girl.  
 
This was told as we walked along the road, and is but a short outline of 
what was told me, written from notes made in the evening. The man said 
that the girl told it with a great deal of the queer old language, which 
he could not remember.   
The girl and her chest on the same horse may be seen in the Highlands. The 
girl, in her white coats and short gown, may be seen blowing the fire in 
highland inns, the queen's likeness might be found; and the feast is a 
highland ball; the filly and the magic bridle are common in other stories; 
the incidents of the basin and candlestick have an equivalent in Norse; 
and I got them from a woman at the Sound of Barra afterwards, in another 
story. This shows what may be lost by dignified traveling. While the man 
was enjoying himself in the kitchen, the employer was smoking in solitary 
dignity, upstairs in his bedroom, writing a journal, and utterly 
unconscious that the game he pursued was so near.   
I have other versions of this tale from other sources, and may find room 
for them hereafter.