A mouse and a coal once went walking together. They came to a brook and 
wanted to get across, but there was neither a bridge nor a walkway, but 
only a piece of straw lying nearby. They would have to walk across the 
straw, if they wanted to get to the other side.  
 Then the coal said to the mouse, "You go first! You can jump better 
than I can."  
 But the mouse said, "No, you cross first. You must light the way for 
me."  
 In the end, after they had quarreled enough, the coal went on ahead, 
but when he got to the middle of the brook, the straw caught fire and 
burned in two. The coal fell into the water and died, just like coals 
always die when they fall into water. In his fear he cried out. "Hsssss," 
he said.  
 When the mouse saw and heard this, he began to laugh, and he laughed 
and laughed until he split his fur coat. His joy in someone else's 
misfortune did not do him any good!  
 "What can I do now?" he thought. "I must see how I can mend my coat." 
 
 Then the mouse went to the shoemaker and said, "Give me some thread, so 
I can mend my coat."  
 The shoemaker said, "If you will bring me some bristles, I will give 
you some thread, so you can mend your coat."  
 Then the mouse went to the sow and said, "Give me some bristles, so I 
can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker will give me some 
thread, so I can mend my coat."  
 The sow said, "Give me some bran, then I will give you some bristles, 
so you can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker will give 
you some thread, so you can mend your coat."  
 Then the mouse went to the miller and said, "Give me some bran, so I 
can take the bran to the sow, so the sow will give me some bristles, so I 
can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker will give me some 
thread, so I can mend my coat."  
 The miller said, "Give me some grain, then I will give you some bran, 
so you can take the bran to the sow, so the sow will give you some 
bristles, so you can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker 
will give you some thread, so you can mend your coat."  
 Then the mouse went to the field and said, "Give me some grain, so I 
can take the grain to the miller, so the miller will give me some bran, so 
I can take the bran to the sow, so the sow will give me some bristles, so 
I can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker will give me 
some thread, so I can mend my coat."  
 The field said, "Give me some manure, then I will give you some grain, 
so you can take the grain to the miller, so the miller will give you some 
bran, so you can take the bran to the sow, so the sow will give you some 
bristles, so you can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker 
will give you some thread, so you can mend your coat."  
 Then the mouse went to the cow and said, "Give me some manure, so I can 
take the manure to the field, so the field will give me some grain, so I 
can take the grain to the miller, so the miller will give me some bran, so 
I can take the bran to the sow, so the sow will give me some bristles, so 
I can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker will give me 
some thread, so I can mend my coat."  
 The cow said, "Give me some grass, then I will give you some manure, so 
you can take the manure to the field, so the field will give you some 
grain, so you can take the grain to the miller, so the miller will give 
you some bran, so you can take the bran to the sow, so the sow will give 
you some bristles, so you can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the 
shoemaker will give you some thread, so you can mend your coat."  
 Then the mouse went to the meadow and said, "Give me some grass, so I 
can take the grass to the cow, so the cow will give me some manure, so I 
can take the manure to the field, so the field will give me some grain, so 
I can take the grain to the miller, so the miller will give me some bran, 
so I can take the bran to the sow, so the sow will give me some bristles, 
so I can take the bristles to the shoemaker, so the shoemaker will give me 
some thread, so I can mend my coat."  
 The meadow said, "Give me some water, then I will give you some grass, 
so you can take the grass to the cow, so the cow will give you some 
manure, so you can take the manure to the field, so the field will give 
you some grain, so you can take the grain to the miller, so the miller 
will give you some bran, so you can take the bran to the sow, so the sow 
will give you some bristles, so you can take the bristles to the 
shoemaker, so the shoemaker will give you some thread, so you can mend 
your coat."  
 Then the mouse went to the brook and diverted it onto the meadow, then 
the meadow gave him some grass, then he took the grass to the cow, then 
the cow gave him some manure, then he took the manure to the field, then 
the field gave him some grain, then he took the grain to the miller, then 
the miller gave him some bran, then he took the bran to the sow, then the 
sow gave him some bristles, then he took the bristles to the shoemaker, 
then the shoemaker gave him some thread, and then the mouse was able to 
mend his coat.