Game 
 
 One day Brer Fox came along all rigged out and asked Brer Rabbit to go
hunting with him, but Brer Rabbit, he sort of felt lazy, and he told Brer
Fox that he had some other fish to fry. Brer Fox felt might sorry, he did,
but he said he believed he would try his hand anyhow, and off he went. 
 He was gone all day, and he had a monstrous streak of luck, Brer Fox
did, and he bagged a sight of game. By and by, towards the shank of
evening, Brer Rabbit sort of stretched himself, he did, and allowed that
it was almost time for Brer Fox to be getting along home. 
 Then Brer Rabbit, he went and mounted a stump to see if he could hear
Brer Fox coming. He hadn't been there long when sure enough here came Brer
Fox through the woods singing like a Negro at a frolic. Brer Rabbit, he
leapt down off the stump, he did, and lay down in the road and made like
he was dead. 
 Brer Fox, he came along, he did, and saw Brer Rabbit lying there. He
turned him over, he did, and examined him, and he said, "This here rabbit
is dead. He looks like he's been dead a long time. He's dead, but he's
mighty fat. He is the fattest rabbit that I ever saw, but he's been dead
too long. I am afraid to take him home," he said. 
 Brer Rabbit didn't say anything. Brer Fox, he sort of licked his chops,
but he went on and left Brer Rabbit lying in the road. Directly he was out
of sight, Brer Rabbit, he jumped up, he did, and ran around through the
woods and got in front of Brer Fox again. Brer Fox, he came up and there
lay Brer Rabbit, apparently cold and stiff. 
 Brer Fox, he looked at Brer Rabbit, and he sort of studied. After a
while he unslung his game bag, and he said to himself, "This here rabbit
is going to waste. I'll just leave my game here, and I'll go back and get
that other rabbit, and I'll make folks believe that I'm Old Man Hunter
from Huntsville," he said. 
 With that he dropped his game and loped back up the road after the
other rabbit, and when he was out of sight, old Brer Rabbit, he snatched
up Brer Fox's game and put out for home. 
 The next time he saw Brer Fox he hollered out, "What did you kill the
other day?" he said. 
 Then Brer Fox, he sort of combed his flank with his tongue, and
hollered back, "I caught a handful of hard sense, Brer Rabbit," he
said. 
 Then old Brer Rabbit, he laughed, he did, and up and responded, "If I'd
have known you were after that, Brer Fox, I'd have loaned you some of
mine," he said.