One time Brer Rabbit was going along through the bushes singing to
himself, and he saw a shadow pass before him. He looked up, and there was
Mr. Hawk sailing around and around. Every time he sailed around, he got a
little closer, but Brer Rabbit didn't notice this, and by and by, down he
dropped right slam-bang on Brer Rabbit, and there he had him. He held him
in a mighty tight grip. He held him so tight that it made Brer Rabbit's
breath come short like it does off a long journey. 
 He hollered and he begged, but that didn't do any good. He squalled and
he cried, but that didn't do any good. He kicked and he groaned, but that
didn't do any good. Then Brer Rabbit lay still and studied about what in
the name of goodness he was going to do. By and by he up and allowed, "I
don't know what you want with me, Mr. Hawk. I am scarcely a mouthful for
you." 
 Mr. Hawk, he said, "I'll do away with you, and then I'll go catch me a
couple of jay-birds." 
 This made Brer Rabbit shake all over, because if there was any kind of
creature that he despised on the topside of the earth, it was a jay-bird.
Brer Rabbit, he said, "Do pray, Mr. Hawk, go catch those jay-birds first,
because I can't stand them being on top of me. I'll stay right here until
you come back," he said. 
 Mr. Hawk, he said, "Oh-oh, Brer Rabbit, you've been fooling too many
folks. You're not fooling me," he said. 
 Brer Rabbit, he said, "If you can't do that, Mr. Hawk, then the best
thing for you to do is to wait and let me get tame, because I am so wild
now that I won't taste good." 
 Mr. Hawk, he said, "Oh-oh!" 
 Brer Rabbit, he said, "Well then, if that won't do, you had better wait
and let me grow big, so I'll be a full meal of vittles." 
 Mr. Hawk, he said, "Now you are talking sense!" 
 Brer Rabbit, he said, "And I'll rush around among the bushes and drive
out some partridges for you, and we'll have more fun than what you can
shake a stick at." 
 Mr. Hawk was sort of studying about this, and Brer Rabbit, he begged,
and he explained, and the long and short of it was that Brer Rabbit got
loose, and he did not get any bigger, and neither did he drive out any
partridges for Mr. Hawk.