"The animals and the creatures," said Uncle Remus, shaking his coffee
around in the bottom of his tin cup, in order to gather up all the sugar,
 
 they just kept on getting more and more familiar with one
another, until by and by it wasn't long before Brer Rabbit and Brer Fox
and Brer Possum got to sort of bunching their provisions together in the
same shanty. After a while the roof sort of began to leak, and one day
Brer Rabbit and Brer Fox and Brer Possum assembled to see if they couldn't
kind of patch it up. They had a big day's work in front of them, and they
fetched their dinner with them. They lumped the vittles up in one pile,
and the butter that Brer Fox brought, they went and put it in the
spring-house to keep it cool, and then they went to work, and it wasn't
long before Brer Rabbit's stomach began to sort of growl and pester him.
Brer Fox's butter sat heavy on his mind, and his mouth watered every time
he remembered it.  
 Presently he said to himself that he would like to have a nip
at the butter, and then he laid out his plans, he did. First thing you
know, while they were working along, Brer Rabbit raised his head quickly
and flung his ears forward, and hollered out, "Here I am. What do you want
with me?" and off he went, like something was after him. 
 He sallied around, old Brer Rabbit did, and after he made sure
that nobody was following, he bounced into the spring-house, and there he
stayed until he got a helping of butter. Then he sauntered on back and
went to work. 
 "Where have you been?" said Brer Fox. 
 "I heard my children calling me," said Brer Rabbit, "and I had
to go see what they wanted. My old woman has gone and taken sick," he
said. 
 They worked on until by and by the butter tasted so good that
old Brer Rabbit wanted some more. Then he raised up his head, he did, and
hollered out, "Heyo! Hold on! I'm a-coming!" And off he went. 
 This time he stayed a good while, and when he got back, Brer
Fox asked him where he'd been. 
 "I've been to see my old woman, and she's sinking," he
said. 
 Directly Brer Rabbit heard them calling him again, and off he
went, and this time, bless your soul, he got the butter out so clean that
he could see himself in the bottom of the bucket. He scraped it clean and
licked it dry, and then he went back to work looking like a black man that
had been picked up by the plantation patrol. 
 "How's your old woman this time?" said Brer
Rabbit. 
 "I'm obliged to you, Brer Fox," said Brer Rabbit, "but I'm
afraid that she's gone by now," and that sort of made Brer Fox and Brer
Possum feel in mourning with Brer Rabbit. 
 By and by, when dinnertime came, they all got out their
vittles, but Brer Rabbit kept on looking lonesome, and Brer Fox and Brer
Possum, they sort of rustled around to see if they couldn't make Brer
Rabbit feel sort of splimmy. 
 "What is that, Uncle Remus?" asked the little boy. 
 "Sort of splimmy-splammy [feeling fine], honey. Sort of like he was
among friends, sort of like his old woman wasn't dead after all. You know
what folks do when they are around people who are mourning? 
 The little boy didn't know, fortunately for him, and Uncle Remus went
on: 
 Brer Fox and Brer Possum rustled around, they did, getting out
the vittles, and by and by Brer Fox, he said, "Brer Possum, you run down
to the spring and fetch the butter, and I'll sail around you and set the
table," he said. 
 Brer Possum, he loped off after the butter, and directly he
came loping back with his ears a-trembling and his tongue a-hanging
out. 
 "Brer Fox!" he hollered out. 
 "What's the matter now, Brer Possum?" he said. 
 "You all had better run, folks" said Brer Possum. "The last
drop of that butter is gone." 
 "Where did it go?" said Brer Fox. 
 "It looks like it dried up," said Brer Possum. 
 Then Brer Rabbit, he looked sort of solemn, he did, and he up
and said, "I suspect that the butter melted in somebody's mouth," he
said. 
 Then they went down to the spring with Brer Possum, and sure
enough, the butter was gone. While they were talking about the mystery,
Brer rabbit said that he could see tracks all around there, and he pointed
out that if they would all go to sleep, he could catch the chap that stole
the butter.  
 They all lay down, and Brer Fox and Brer Possum, they soon
dropped off to sleep, but Brer Rabbit, he stayed awake, and when the time
came, he got up easy, and smeared Brer Possum's mouth with the butter on
his paws, and then he ran off and nibbled up the best of the dinner that
they had left lying out, and then he came back and woke up Brer Fox and
showed him the butter on Brer Possum's mouth. Then they woke up Brer
Possum and told him about it, but of course Brer Possum denied it to the
last.  
 Now Brer Fox, he's kind of a lawyer, and he argued this way:
that Brer Possum was the first one at the butter, and the first one to
miss it, and more than that, there were the signs on his
mouth. 
 Brer Possum could see that they had him jammed up in a corner,
and then he up and said that the way to catch the man that stole the
butter was to build a big brush heap and set it on fire, and everyone
would try to jump over it, and the one that fell in, that would be the
chap that stole the butter. 
 Brer Rabbit and Brer Fox, they both agreed, they did, and they
whirled in and built the brush heap, and they built it high, and they
built it wide, and then they touched it off. When it got to blazing up
good, Brer Rabbit he took the first turn. He sort of stepped back, and
looked around and giggled, and over he went, just like a bird
flying. 
 Then came Brer Fox. He got back a little further, and spit on
his hands, and lit out and made the jump, and he came so close to falling
in that his tail caught fire. 
 "Haven't you ever seen a fox, honey?" inquired Uncle Remus, in a tone
that implied both conciliation and information. 
 The little boy thought probably he had, but he wouldn't commit
himself. 
 "Well then, continued the old man, "next time you see one of them, you
look right close and see if the end of his tail isn't white. It's just
like I tell you. They bear the scar of that brush right down to this day.
They are marked, that's what they are. They are marked." 
 "And what about Brother Possum?" asked the little boy. 
 "Old Brer Possum, he took a running start, he did, and he came
lumbering along, and he lit -- kerblam! -- right in the middle of the
fire, and that was the last of old Brer Possum." 
 "But, Uncle Remus, Brother Possum didn't steal the butter after all,"
said the little boy, who was not at all satisfied with such summary
injustice. 
 "That's what makes me say what I say, honey. In this world, lots of
folks have to suffer for other folks' sins. It looks like it's mighty
wrong, but it's just that way. Tribulation seems like it's a-waiting just
around the corner to catch one and all of us, honey."