A count by the name of Gebhard resided at Querfurt. His brother was Saint
Bruno, who along with Saint Adalbert was an apostle to the heathen
Prussians. Count Gebhard was a strict and serious lord with a stubborn
mind and a quick response. Once, when he had been away from his realm for
some time, his wife, a noblewoman from Saxony, gave birth at the Querfurt
residence to nine babies at one time.
 She and her attendants were terrified at this overly rich blessing, and
they feared the worst from their count and lord, for he was temperamental
and had often spoken unfavorably about women who had given birth to more
than one child -- say two or three at one time -- and here there were
fully three times three. He could well think that this was altogether too
many and hence react in an unpleasant manner.
 Thus they took council with one another and decided to keep but one of
the babies, the first and strongest, and to do away with the remaining
eight. One of the servant women was ordered to carry the eight babies away
in a kettle. She was to load the kettle with stones and sink it in the
nearby castle pond.
 This woman met Saint Bruno, who was living in Querfurt at the time.
That early morning he was walking back and forth near a beautiful spring
saying his prayers. Hearing a baby cry, he asked the woman what she was
carrying.
 Terrified, the woman said, "Young whelps," and attempted to hurry on
her way. However, Bruno made her take the cover off the kettle, saw the
eight babies, and forced the woman to tell to whom they belonged. She told
him the whole truth.
 Bruno swore her to secrecy, even with regards to the mother. At the
spring he baptized the children in the copper kettle in which they were
lying, naming each one Bruno after himself. He then gave them to good and
loyal people for care and upbringing. This all he kept a deep secret until
the time came for him to return to Prussia.
 The ninth boy, the one that was kept, was named Burkhart, and with time
he became the grandfather of Emperor Lothar.
 Because Bruno was about to go abroad, he revealed the secret to his
brother, making him promise to not hold this sinful act against his wife,
who believed that the children were dead. In the intervening years she had
felt the deepest regret and the most painful sorrow.
 He then had the eight boys, all dressed alike, brought to the castle
and introduced to their parents, who recognized from their appearance and
gestures that they were the true brothers of the ninth boy. Sorrow and joy
ruled at the same time.
 However, Count Gebhard did not allow his wife to go entirely
unpunished. He had a new pair of shoes made for her, not from leather but
from iron. He had the iron heated until it glowed. The countess had to put
on these red-hot shoes for a time for having agreed to the advise to
murder the children.
 These same shoes and the baptismal kettle are still on display in the
church at Querfurt. To this day the spring is called "Bruno's Spring," and the pond where the whelps were to have been drowned is still called "Wolf Pond."