Once upon a time there was a man who had three daughters. The youngest
one was named Oda. 
 One day the father wanted to go the market, and he asked his daughters
what he should bring back to them. The oldest asked for a golden spinning
wheel, the second for a golden ring, but Oda said, "Bring me that which
runs away from beneath your carriage when you are about to return." 
 At the market the father bought what the older girls had wished for
themselves, then set off toward home, and behold, a snake ran from beneath
his carriage. The man caught it and brought it along for Oda. He threw it
into the bottom of his carriage, then afterward in front of the house
door, and left it lying there. 
 When Oda entered the door the snake began speaking, "Oda! Dear Oda!
Can't I come inside?" 
 "What?" said Oda. "My father brought you up to the front door, and now
you want to come inside?" But she gave in. 
 Then Oda went to her bedroom, and the snake called after her, "Oda,
dear Oda! Can't I rest in front of your bedroom door?" 
 "Look here," said Oda. "My father brought you up to the front door, and
I let you come inside, and now you want to lie in front of my bedroom
door? Well, let it be so." 
 When Oda was about to enter her bedroom and opened the bedroom door,
the snake called out again, "Oh, Oda, dear Oda! Can't I come into your
bedroom?" 
 "What," called Oda, "Didn't my father bring you up to the font door?
Didn't I let you come inside and up to my bedroom door? And now you want
to come into my bedroom with me? -- All right, if you will now be
satisfied, come inside, but you must lie here quietly, I'm telling
you!" 
 With that Oda let the snake come inside, and she began to get
undressed. She was about to climb into her bed when the snake called out
again, "Oh Oda, dearest Oda! Can't I get into bed with you?" 
 "This is too much!" cried Oda angrily. "My father brought you up to the
front door, and I allowed you into my room, and now you want to get into
bed with me? But you are freezing! All right, come here and get warm, you
poor worm!" 
 Then good Oda stuck out her soft, warm hand and picked up the cold
snake, who had been enchanted for a long time and who could only be
redeemed if everything could happen just as it had now happened. He was
transformed into a handsome young prince, and he immediately took Oda as
his wife.