1 
In old days there lived in Hjørring a king, who ruled over Vendsyssel [the northernmost province of Jutland], and was widely known for his wild delight in the chase and his contempt for Christianity.   
One Sunday, while the people were at church, and King Jon was hunting in its neighborhood, his dogs started and followed a hare, which, to conceal itself, ran into the church, and up before the altar. Both the dogs followed at its heels, and of course greatly disturbed divine service, as the priest was just in the middle of his sermon, but the confusion was made still worse, when King Jon came riding into the church to get hold of his prey, which the hounds had already secured.   
The priest grew angry at this, and said that he thought it highly unbecoming thus to disturb the service, but the King did not trouble himself for that.   
"If I may only keep my hunting both here and after my death," said he, "other folk may well keep both divine service and heaven for me."   
Having by this time got hold of the hare, he turned his horse in front of the altar and trotted out of the church.   
He died some time after this, but can find rest nowhere, and on clear summer evenings he rides in the air followed by his hounds. The sound of this can often be heard, and it is bad to meet him when one is alone.  
 2 
When three doors with locks stand open in a line with each other, Jon the hunter and his dogs have power to enter, if they are in the neighborhood. In this way he entered a large farm on Hjorte-naes, and asked what they had to spare for Jon the hunter that day. The farmer went out and brought a big ferocious bull, every bit of which they ate up on the floor of the room, for they were thoroughly hungry. When this was done, the hunter told the farmer that in future he should have great luck with his cattle, and so it turned out: his cows often had two calves thereafter.  
 3  
A woman in Svendstrup [Svenstrup?] was up one morning before daybreak to brew the Christmas ale, and had let the two doors of the brew-house stand open. These were right opposite each other, and by and by three hounds came running in and began to lap the ale out of a vessel. She guessed they were Un's hounds, and was afraid, but thought it best to make friends with them, so she went up and patted them, saying, "Poor things."   
They then ran away again, but it was not for nothing that she had been so friendly with them, for when she went outside after daybreak she found a gold horse-shoe lying outside one of the doors.