Gesta Romanorum 
The Emperor Gallus employed a singularly skilful carpenter in the erection 
of a magnificent palace. At that period, a certain knight lived who had a 
very beautiful daughter; and who, perceiving the extraordinary sagacity of 
the artificer, determined to give him the lady in marriage.  
Calling him, therefore, he said, "My good friend, ask of me what you will; 
so that it be possible, I will do it, provided you marry my daughter."  
The other assented, and the nuptial rites were celebrated accordingly.  
Then the mother of the lady said to the carpenter, "My son, since you have 
become one of our family, I will bestow upon you a curious shirt. It 
possesses this singular property, that as long as you and your wife are 
faithful to each other, it will neither be rent, nor worn, nor stained. 
But if -- which Heaven forbid! -- either of you prove unfaithful, 
instantly it will lose its virtue."  
The carpenter, very happy in what he heard, took the shirt, and returned 
great thanks for the gift. A short while afterward, the carpenter being 
sent for to superintend the building of the emperor's palace, took with 
him the valuable present which he had received. He continued, absent until 
the structure was complete; and numbers, observing how much he labored, 
admired the freshness and spotless purity of his shirt.  
Even the emperor condescended to notice it, and said to him, "My master, 
how is it that in despite of your laborious occupation, and the constant 
use of your shirt, it still preserves its color and beauty?"  
"You must know, my Lord," said he, "that as long as my wife and I continue 
faithful to each other, my shirt retains its original whiteness and 
beauty; but if either of us forget our matrimonial vows, it will sully 
like any other cloth."  
A soldier, overhearing this, thought within himself, "If I can I will make 
you wash your shirt."  
Wherefore, without giving any cause of suspicion to the carpenter, he 
secretly hastened to his house, and solicited his wife to dishonor. She 
received him with an appearance of pleasure, and seemed to be entirely 
influenced by the same feelings. "But," added she, "in this place we are 
exposed to observation; come with me, and I will conduct you into a 
private chamber."  
He followed her, and closing the door, she said, "Wait here awhile; I will 
return presently."  
Thus she did every day, all the time supplying him only with bread and 
water. Without regard to his urgency, she compelled him to endure this 
humiliating treatment; and before long, two other soldiers came to her 
from the emperor's court, with the same evil views. In like manner, she 
decoyed them into the chamber, and fed them with bread and water. The 
sudden disappearance, however, of the three soldiers gave rise to much 
inquiry; and the carpenter, on the completion of his labors, received the 
stipulated sum, and returned to his own home.  
His virtuous wife met him with joy, and looking upon the spotless shirt, 
exclaimed, "Blessed be God! Our truth is made apparent -- there is not a 
single stain upon the shirt."  
To which he replied, "My beloved, during the progress of the building, 
three soldiers, one after another, came to ask questions about the shirt. 
I related the fact, and since that time nothing has been heard of them." 
 
The lady smiled, and said, "The soldiers respecting whom you feel anxious 
thought me a fit subject for their improper solicitation, and came hither 
with the vilest intent. I decoyed them into a remote chamber, and have fed 
them with bread and water."  
The carpenter, delighted with this proof of his wife's fidelity, spared 
their lives, and liberated them; and he and his wife lived happily for the 
rest of their lives.  
 
 
My beloved, the emperor is God ; the palace is the human heart. The knight 
who married his daughter to the carpenter is Christ; the carpenter is any 
good Christian, and the mother is the Church. The shirt is faith; the 
three soldiers are pride, lusts of the eyes, and lusts of the heart.