In the reign of the Emperor Fulgentius, a certain knight, named
Zedechias, married a very beautiful but imprudent wife. In a certain
chamber of their mansion a serpent dwelt. Now, the knight's vehement
inclination for tournaments and jousting brought him to extreme poverty.
He grieved immoderately, and, like one who was desperate, walked backward
and forward, ignorant of what he should do. The serpent, beholding his
misery, like the ass of Balaam, was on that occasion miraculously gifted
with a voice, and said to the knight, "Why do you lament? Take my advice,
and you shall not repent it. Supply me every day with a certain quantity
of sweet milk, and I will enrich you." 
 This promise exhilarated the knight, and he faithfully followed the
instructions of his subtle friend. The consequence was that he had a
beautiful son, and became exceedingly wealthy. But it happened that his
wife one day said to him, "My lord, I am sure that serpent has great
riches hidden in the chamber where he dwells. Let us kill him and get
possession of the whole." 
 The advice pleased the knight, and at the request of his wife he took a
hammer to destroy the serpent, and a vessel of milk. Allured by the milk,
it put its head out of the hole, as it had been accustomed; and the knight
lifted the hammer to strike it. The serpent, observing his perfidy,
suddenly drew back its head; and the blow fell upon the vessel. No sooner
had he done this, than his offspring died, and he lost everything that he
formerly possessed. 
 The wife, taught by their common loss, said to him, "Alas! I have ill
counseled you; but go now to the hole of the serpent, and humbly
acknowledge your offense. Peradventure you may find grace." The knight
complied, and standing before the dwelling place of the serpent, shed many
tears, and entreated that he might once more be made rich. 
 "I see," answered the serpent, "I see now that you are a fool, and will
always be a fool. For how can I forget that blow of the hammer which you
designed me, for which reason I slew your son and took away your wealth?
There can be no real peace between us." 
 The knight, full of sorrow, replied thus, "I promise the most unshaken
fidelity, and will never meditate the slightest injury, provided I may
this once obtain your grace." 
 "My friend," said the serpent, "it is the nature of my species to be
subtle and venomous. Let what I have said suffice. The blow offered at my
head is fresh upon my recollection; get you gone before you receive an
injury." 
 The knight departed in great affliction, saying to his wife, "Fool that
I was to take your counsel!" But ever afterwards they lived in the
greatest indigence. 
 
 
 
 Application: 
 
My beloved, the king is God; the knight is Adam, who by following his
wife's advice lost Paradise. The serpent in the chamber signifies Christ
retained in the human heart, by virtue of baptism.