An emperor rode out in the afternoon to hunt. Happening to pass a
certain wood, he heard a serpent, which some shepherds had caught and
bound firmly to a tree, making a most horrible clamor. Moved by pity, he
loosed it, and warmed its frozen body in his own bosom. No sooner,
however, did the animal find itself recovered, than it began to bite its
benefactor, and shot a flood of poison into the wound. "What have you
done?" said the emperor. "Wherefore have you rendered evil for good?" 
 The serpent, like the ass of Balaam, being suddenly endowed with voice,
replied, "The propensities which nature has implanted no one can destroy.
You have done what you could; and I have only acted according to my
nature. You exhibited towards me all the kindness in your power, and I
have recompensed you as well as I might. I offered poison, because, except
poison, I had nothing to offer. Moreover, I am an enemy to man; for
through him I became punished with a curse." 
 As they thus contended, they entreated a philosopher to judge between
them, and to state which was in the wrong. "I know this matter," answered
the umpire, "only by your relation; but I should like to see the thing
itself upon which I am to pronounce judgment. Let the serpent, therefore,
be bound to the tree, as he was in the first instance, and let my lord the
emperor remain unbound; I shall then determine the matter between you."
This was done accordingly. "Now you are bound," said the philosopher,
addressing the serpent, loose yourself if you can." 
 "I cannot," said the serpent; "I am bound so fast that I can scarcely
move." 
 "Then die," rejoined the philosopher, "by a just sentence. You were
always ungrateful to man, and you always will be. My lord, you are now
free. Shake the venom from your bosom, and go your way. Do not repeat your
folly. Remember that the serpent is only influence by his natural
propensities." The emperor thanked the philosopher for his assistance and
advice, and departed. 
 
 
 Application: 
 
 My beloved, the emperor is any good ecclesiastic, the wood
is the world, and the serpent is the devil. The shepherds are the
prophets, patriarchs, Christian preachers, etc. The philosopher is a
discreet confessor.