Lake 
 

Of old times. There was a very beautiful woman. She turned the heads of 
all the men. She married, and her husband died very soon after, but she 
immediately took another. Within a single year she had five husbands, and 
these were the cleverest and handsomest and bravest in the tribe. And 
then she married again.   
This, the sixth, was such a silent man that he passed for a fool. But he 
was wiser than people thought. He came to believe, by thinking it over, 
that this woman had some strange secret. He resolved to find it out. So he 
watched her all the time. He kept his eye on her by night and by day.   
It was summer, and she proposed to go into the woods to pick berries, and 
to camp there. By and by, when they were in the forest, she suggested that 
he should go on to the spot where they intended to remain and build a 
wigwam. He said that he would do so. But he went a little way into the 
woods and watched her.   
As soon as she believed that he was gone, she rose and walked rapidly 
onwards. He followed her, unseen. She went on, till, in a deep, wild place 
among the rocks, she came to a pond. She sat down and sang a song. A great 
foam, or froth, rose to the surface of the water. Then in the foam 
appeared the tail of a serpent. The creature was of immense size.   
The woman, who had laid aside all her garments, embraced the serpent, 
which twined around her, enveloping all her limbs and body in his folds. 
The husband watched it all. He now understood that, the venom of the 
serpent having entered the woman, she had saved her life by transferring 
it to others, who died.   
He went on to the camping ground and built a wigwam. He made up two beds. 
He built a fire. His wife came. She was earnest that there should be only 
a single bed. He sternly bade her lie by herself. She was afraid of him. 
  
She laid down and went to sleep. He arose three times during the night to 
replenish the fire. Every time he called her, and there was no answer. In 
the morning he shook her. She was dead. She had died by the poison of the 
serpent.   
They sunk her in the pond where the snake lived.