After dinner Stilling assembled a number of children about him, went out with them into the fields, or to the edge of a brook, and then related to them all kinds of fine sentimental tales; and after his store was exhausted, others were obliged to do the same.   
Some of them were once together in a meadow, when a boy came to them, who began as follows:  
   
Hear me, children! I will tell you something. Near us lives old Fr端hling; you know how he totters about with his stick; be has no longer any teeth, and he cannot see or hear much. Now, when he sits at the dinner table, and trembles in such a manner, he always scatters much, and sometimes something falls out of his mouth again.   
This disgusted his son and his daughter-in-law; and, therefore, the old grandfather was at length obliged to eat in the corner, behind the stove; they gave him something to eat in an earthen dish, and that often not enough to satisfy him. I have seen him eating; and he looked so sad after dinner, and his eyes were wet with tears.   
Well, the day before yesterday he broke his earthen dish. The young woman scolded him severely, but he said nothing, and only sighed. They then bought him a wooden dish for a couple of farthings, and he was obliged to eat out of it yesterday for the first time.   
Whilst they were sitting thus at dinner, their little boy, who is three years and a half old, began to gather little boards together on the floor.   
Young Fr端hling said to him, "What are you doing there, Peter?"   
"Oh," said the child, "I am making a little trough, out of which my father and mother shall eat when I am grown up."   
Young Fr端hling and his wife looked at each other awhile; at length they began to weep, and immediately fetched the old grandfather to the table, and let him eat with them.  
 
The children sprang up, clapped their hands, and cried out, "That is very pretty. Did little Peter say so?"   
"Yes," rejoined the boy, "I stood by when it happened."   
Heinrich Stilling, however, did not laugh. He stood still, and looked down. The tale penetrated through him, even to his inmost soul.   
At length he began: "I believe if that had happened to my grandfather, he would have risen up from his wooden dish, gone into a corner of the room, and, having placed himself there, would have exclaimed, 'Lord, strengthen me at this time, that I may avenge myself of these Philistines!' He would then have laid hold of the corner posts, and have pulled the house down about them."   
"Gently, gently, Stilling!" said one of the tallest of the boys to him. "That would have been a little too bad of your grandfather."   
"You are in the right," said Heinrich; "but only think how Satanic it was! How often may old Fr端hling have had his boy in his lap, and put the best morsels into his mouth! It would not have been wonderful if some fiery dragon, at midnight, when the first quarter of the moon had just set, had hurled itself down the chimney of such a house, and poisoned all the food."