There was once a girl who was so mad about dancing that she nearly went
out of her mind whenever she heard a fiddle strike up. 
 She was a very clever dancer, and a smarter girl to whirl round in a
dance or kick her heels was not easily to be found, although she only had
shoes made of birch bark, and knitted leggings on her feet. She swept past
at such a rate that the air whistled round her like a humming top. She
might have whirled round still more quickly and lightly, of course, if she
had had leather shoes. But how was she to get them, when she had no money
to pay for them? For she was very poor, this girl, and could ill afford
them. 
 So one day, when the fair was being held at Amberg Heath, whom should
she meet but Old Nick [the devil]! He was going to see the fun of the
fair, as you may guess, for all sorts of tramps and vagabonds and watch
dealers and rogues go there. And where such gentry are to be found, others
of the same feather are sure to flock together. 
 "What are you thinking about?" asked Old Nick, who knew well enough how
matters stood. 
 "I am wondering how I shall be able to get a pair of leather shoes to
dance in," said the girl, "for I haven't any money to pay for them," she
said. 
 "Is that all? We'll soon get over that," said Old Nick, and produced a
pair of leather shoes, which he showed her. "Do you like these?" he
asked. 
 The girl stood staring at the shoes. She could never have believed that
there were such fine, splendid shoes, for they were not common ones sewn
with pitched thread, but real German shoes with welted soles, and looked
as French as one could wish. 
 "Is there a spring in them as well?" she asked. 
 "Yes, that you may be sure of," said Old Nick. "Do you want them?" 
 Yes, that she did. There could be no doubt about that. And so they
began bargaining and higgling about the payment, till at last they came to
terms. She was to have the shoes for a whole year for nothing, if only she
would dance in his interest, and afterwards she should belong to him. 
 She did not exactly make a good bargain, but Old Nick is not a person
one can bargain with. But there was to be such a spring in them that no
human being would be able to swing round quicker in a dance or kick higher
than she did. And if they did not satisfy her, he would take them back for
nothing, and she should be free. 
 With this they parted. 
 And now the girl seemed to wake up thoroughly. She thought of nothing
else but going to dances, wherever they might be, night after night. Well,
she danced and danced, and before she knew it the year came to an end, and
Old Nick came and asked for his due. 
 "They were a rubbishy pair of shoes you gave me," said the girl. "There
was no spring at all in them," she said. 
 "Wasn't there any spring in the shoes? That's very strange," said Old
Nick 
 "No, there wasn't!" said the girl. "Why, my bark shoes are far better,
and I can get on much faster in them than in these wretched things." 
 "You twist about as if you were dancing," said Old Nick. "But now I
think you will have to dance away with me after all." 
 "Well, if you don't believe my words, I suppose you'll believe your
eyes," she said. "Put on these grand shoes of yours, and try them
yourself," she said. "And I'll put on my bark shoes, and then we'll have a
race, so that you can see what they are good for," she said. 
 Well, that was reasonable enough, he thought, and, no doubt, he felt
there was very little danger in trying it. So they agreed to race to the
end of Lake Fryken and back, on each side of the lake, which, as you know,
is a very long one indeed. If she came in first she was to be free, but if
she came in last she was to belong to him. 
 But the girl had to run home first of all, for she had a roll of cloth
for the parson, which she must deliver before she tried her speed with Old
Nick. Very well, that she might, for he went in fear of the parson. But
the race should take place on the third day afterwards. 
 Now, as bad luck would have it for Old Nick, it so happened that the
girl had a sister, who was so like her that it was impossible to know one
from the other, for they were twins, the two girls. 
 But the sister was not mad about dancing, so Old Nick had not got scent
of her. The girl now asked her sister to place herself at Frykstad, the
south end of the lake, and she herself took up her position at Fryksend,
the north end of it. 
 She had the bark shoes on, and Old Nick the leather ones. And so they
set off, each on their side of the lake. The girl did not run very far,
for she knew well enough how little running she need do. But Old Nick set
off at full speed, much faster than one can ride on the railway. 
 But when he came to Frykstad he found the girl already there. And when
he came back to Fryksend there she was too. 
 "Well, you see now?" said the girl. 
 "Of course I see," said Old Nick, but he was not the man to give in at
once. "One time is no time, that you know," he said. 
 "Well, let's have another try," said the girl. 
 Yes, that he would, for the soles of his shoes were almost worn out,
and then he knew what state the bark shoes would be in. 
 They set off for the second time, and Old Nick ran so fast that the air
whistled round the corners of the houses in Sonne and Emtervik parishes.
But when he came to Frykstad, the girl was already there, and when he got
back to Fryksend, she was there before him this time also. 
 "Can you see now who comes in first?" she said. 
 "Yes, of course I can," said Old Nick, and began to dry the
perspiration off his face, thinking all the time what a wonderful runner
that girl must be. "But you know," he said, "twice is hardly half a time!
It's the third time that counts." 
 "Let's have another try, then," said the girl. 
 Yes, that he would, for Old Nick is very sly, you know, for when the
leather shoes were so torn to pieces that his feet were bleeding, he knew
well enough what state the bark shoes would be in. 
 And so they set off again. Old Nick went at a terrible speed. It was
just like a regular north-wester rushing past, for now he was furious. He
rushed onwards, so that the roofs were swept away and the fences creaked
and groaned all the way through Sonne and Emtervik parishes. But when he
got to Frykstad the girl war there, and when he got back to Fryksend then
she was there too. 
 His feet were now in such a plight that the flesh hung in pieces from
them, and he was so out of breath, and groaned so hard, that the sound
echoed in the mountains. The girl almost pitied the old creature,
disgusting as he was. 
 "Do you see, now," she said, "that there's a better spring in my bark
shoes than in your leather ones? There's nothing left of yours, while mine
will hold out for another run, if you would like to try," she said. 
 No. Old Nick had now to acknowledge himself beaten, and so she was
free. 
 "I've never seen the like of such a woman," he said, "but if you go on
dancing and jumping about like that all your days we are sure to meet once
more," he said. 
 "Oh, no!" said the girl. And since then she has never danced again, for
it is not every time that you can succeed in getting away from Old
Nick.