They have a tradition at Winterton that there was formerly one Mr.
Lacy, that lived there and was a very rich man, who, being grown very
aged, gave all that he had away unto his three sons, upon condition that
one should keep him one week, and another another. 
 But it happened within a little while that they were all weary of him,
after that they had got what they had, and regarded him no more than a
dog. 
 The old man perceiving how he was slighted, went to an attorney to see
if his skill could not afford him any help in his troubles. The attorney
told him that no law in the land could help him nor yield him any comfort,
but there was one thing only which would certainly do, which, if he would
perform, he would reveal to him. At this the poor old man was exceeding
glad, and desired him for God's sake to reveal the same, for he was almost
pined and starved to death, and he would willingly do it rather than live
as he did. 
 "Well," says the lawyer, "you have been a great friend of mine in my
need, and I will now be one to you in your need. I will lend you a
strongbox with a strong lock on it, in which shall be contained 1000
pounds. You shall on such a day pretend to have fetched it out of a
closet, where it shall be supposed that you had hidden it, and carry it
into one of your son's houses, and make it your business every week, while
you are sojourning with such or such a son, to be always counting of the
money, and rattling it about, and you shall see that, for love of it,
they'll soon love you again, and make very much of you, and maintain you
joyfully, willingly, and plentifully, unto your dying day." 
 The old man, having thanked the lawyer for this good advice and kind
proffer, received within a few days the aforesaid box full of money, and
having so managed it as above, his graceless sons soon fell in love with
him again, and made mighty much of him, and perceiving that their love to
him continued steadfast and firm, he one day took it out of the house and
carried it to the lawyer, thanking him exceedingly for the loan thereof.
But when he got to his sons he made them believe that he had hidden it
again, and that he would give it to him of them whom he loved best when he
died. This made them all so observant of him that he lived the rest of his
days in great peace, plenty, and happiness amongst them, and died full of
years.  
 But a while before he died, he upbraided them for their former
ingratitude, told them the whole history of the box, and forgave them.