1. 
 Once upon a time, God Almighty came to visit Adam and Eve. They 
received him with joy, and showed him everything they had in the house. 
They also brought their children to him, to show him, and these He found 
promising and full of hope. 
 Then He asked Eve whether she had no other children than these whom she 
now showed him. 
 She said "None." 
 But it so happened that she had not finished washing them all, and, 
being ashamed to let God see them dirty, had hidden the unwashed ones. 
This God knew well, and said therefore to her, "What man hides from God, 
God will hide from man." 
 These unwashed children became forthwith invisible, and took up their 
abode in mounds, and hills, and rocks. From these are the elves descended, 
but we men from those of Eve's children whom she had openly and frankly 
shown to God. And it is only by the will and desire of the elves 
themselves that men can ever see them. 
 2. 
 A traveler once lost his way, and knew not whither to turn or what to 
do. At last, after wandering about for some time, he came to a hut, which 
he had never seen before; and on his knocking at the door, an old woman 
opened it, and invited him to come in, which he gladly did. 
 Inside, the house seemed to be a clean and good one. The old woman led 
him to the warmest room, where were sitting two young and beautiful girls. 
Besides these, no one else was in the house. He was well received and 
kindly treated, and having eaten a good supper was shown to bed. 
 He asked whether one of the girls might stay with him, as his companion 
for the night, and his request was granted. 
 And now wishing to kiss her, the traveler turned towards her, and 
placed his hand upon her; but his hand sank through her, as if she had 
been of mist, and though he could well see her lying beside him, he could 
grasp nothing but the air. 
 So he asked what this all meant, and she said, "Be not astonished, for 
I am a spirit. When the devil, in times gone by, made war in heaven, he, 
with all his armies, was driven into outer darkness. Those who turned 
their eyes to look after him as he fell, were also driven out of heaven; 
but those who were neither for nor against him, were sent to the earth and 
commanded to dwell there in the rocks and mountains. 
 These are called elves and hidden people. They can live in company with 
none but their own race. They do either good or evil, which they will, but 
what they do they do thoroughly. They have no bodies as you other mortals, 
but can take a human form and be seen of men when they wish. I am one of 
these fallen spirits, and so you can never hope to embrace me." 
 To this fate the traveler yielded himself, and has handed down to us 
this story.