Changeling folklore not only explained why some children fail to grow and
develop normally and helped to justify the extreme actions that may have
been
taken (whether in fact or only in fantasy) to free the parents or society
from
the burden of caring for handicapped children, it also provided protective
measures against demonic exchange.    
The most frequently mentioned preventative practice, and one that
undoubtedly
evolved because of its positive consequences, was the insistence that the
newborn infant be watched very carefully until certain danger periods had
passed.  "Women who have recently been delivered  may not go to sleep
until
someone is watching over the child.  Mothers who are overcome by sleep
often
have changelings laid in their cradles," recorded Jacob Grimm in his
 German
Mythology.    {footnote 19}    In the
legend
appropriately entitled "Watching Out for the Children," we are given to
believe
that a child would have been stolen by a supernatural being, had not the
parents
been so watchful during the night.  According to most beliefs, a newborn
was to
be watched continuously for the first three days of its life; a somewhat
reduced, but still high level of watchfulness was called for during the
first
six weeks.  The fact that the mother (or her substitute) was expected to
keep
the baby close at hand for at least six weeks helped to protect it from
environmental dangers, aided the child's psychological development, and
contributed significantly to family cohesiveness.  
 Working mothers  
An added benefit of the six weeks of close watching was the relief thus
granted
to the mother from some of her most strenuous duties, thus aiding her
recovery
from pregnancy and delivery.  In "The Changeling in the Thuringian
Forest," the
exchange of infants takes place when the mother leaves her baby alone in
the
house while she fetches wood, a common but strenuous household task.  In
other
legends,  {footnote 20}   babies are
exchanged
when landlords force peasant mothers to do difficult harvest labor before
their
six-week recovery periods are past.  These accounts thus impart the lesson
that
women recovering from confinement should not do work that takes them away
from
their newborn babies.  The last line of one such story states the lesson
succinctly: "And from that time forth he [the nobleman] resolved to never
again
force a woman who had recently given birth to work."  {footnote 21}    Interestingly, this
prohibition is
not described as being for the sake of the women, but rather for the
protection
of their children.  But however stated, the mothers themselves shared in
the
benefits of this belief.  
Although the welfare of the family (and of society at large) dictated that
women
recovering from childbirth be spared many of the strenuous tasks that
normally
were expected of them, the patriarchal bias of German society did not
provide
for a woman's workload to be lightened for her own benefit.  The only
acceptable
justification for this temporary relief from strenuous duties was the
belief
that the woman's child was thus being protected from supernatural harm. 
Numerous other superstitions regulating a woman's post-confinement
activities
confirm this view, for example, the belief that "if a woman spins wool,
hemp, or
flax within six weeks of her confinement, her child will someday be
hanged."  {footnote 22}    Consistent with changeling
beliefs, this superstitious practice spared the recently delivered woman
the
hardest of the spinning tasks, not for her own sake, but for the
protection of
her child.  
 Gender bias  
Other aspects of changeling folklore illustrate this same anti-female
stance. 
Most changeling accounts deal with male babies, implying that the fairies,
elves, trolls, and devils have but little use for a female human child.
In
fact, in some areas boys were dressed in girls' clothing until they were
ten or
eleven years old in order to deceive supernatural kidnappers in search of
young
boys.   {footnote 23}    Further, a number
of the
protective measures prescribed by tradition have a strong patriarchal
bias.  For
example, the popular belief that "whenever the mother leaves the infant's
room
she should lay an article of the father's clothing on the child, so that
it
cannot be exchanged."  {footnote 24}   
 Organized religion  
Numerous religion-oriented protective measures also evolved, which further
strengthened the connection between changeling beliefs and organized
churches.
 {footnote 25}    As one would expect,
Catholics
sought to shield infants with holy water, crucifixes, and representations
of
various saints, whereas Protestants relied on the Bible for protection,
often
placing the book itself (or perhaps a single page) in the cradle as a
talisman. 
In both faiths the unbaptized child was deemed to be especially
vulnerable,
although baptism did not offer complete protection against demonic
exchange. 
Interestingly, the Grimm brothers omit most references to Christianity in
their
writings on changelings, probably in order to emphasize their view that
the
changeling legends and practices still extant in nineteenth-century
Germany were
basically survivals from pre-Christian Europe.  
 The stolen child's perspective  
Nearly all changeling tales are told from the concerned parents' point of
view. 
In the same manner as the parents, we the audience learn that something is
wrong
with an infant, discover the cause, and are told how to effect a
resolution. 
The perspective of another involved party -- the changeling, the
elf-parents, or
the abducted child -- is seldom represented.  Shakespeare's  A
Midsummer-Nights's Dream   builds an exception to this general rule.
An
important subplot of this play is built around Oberon's and Titania's
(king and
queen of the fairies) fight over the guardianship of a changeling boy.  
Another exception is found in the Finnish tale "The Kantele Player,"  {footnote 26}   in which we first learn that
a
child exchange has taken place when the abducted person -- now a beautiful
and
mature woman -- appears to a lonely young man who is playing a kantele (a
Finnish harp) and reveals her story to him.  
The couple seeks out the woman's father, a count, and convince him that
his
supposed daughter, who is twenty-one years old and "will neither grow nor
die,"
is in truth a changeling, a witch's daughter.  "But what should we do with
this
child who has been with us for twenty-one years?"  asks the count.  Acting
upon
the advice of the returning daughter, who knows the ways of witches, they
build
a roaring fire, and the legitimate daughter herself throws the imposter
into the
flames.  A cry is heard from the witches who have been watching through
the
window: "Don't burn our child!"  The changeling's skin bursts from its
body, and
only an alder stump is left in the fireplace.  
This story has a genuine fairy-tale ending (for everyone save the
changeling). 
The kantele player, in spite of his poverty, marries the count's daughter,
and
-- we are told -- they still live in the stone house built for them by her
grateful father.  
 Selma Lagerlöf  
An even happier conclusion (this time for all parties concerned) is given
to us
by Selma Lagerlöf, who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1909, in
her
children's book "The Changeling."  {footnote
27}  
This artful fairy tale weaves the primitive motifs of troll-lore into a
humane
and satisfying fantasy story.    
True to tradition, the author describes the kidnapping of a mortal child
by an
old troll woman, who leaves her own misshapen baby in its place.
Following the
pattern of countless folk legends, the parents are told to beat the
changeling
child with a heavy cane if they want to recover their own baby.  The
father is
only too willing to abuse the ugly troll child, but the mother's maternal
instincts cause her to intercede on the changeling's behalf.  Several
episodes
are described in which the father attempts to follow the community's
expectations by cruelly punishing or even killing the unwanted child, but
each
time the mother selflessly protects the troll baby.    
Her kindness and perseverance are rewarded in the end, and the two
children are
restored to their original parents.  Only then do we learn that during his
absence the human child had lived in an unseen parallel world to that of
his
parents.  Every act of cruelty or of kindness visited upon the troll child
by
his human guardians had been duplicated upon him by his troll stepmother.
It
was a mother's kindness and humanity rather than the expected abuse and
neglect
that rescued her child.  Lagerlöf thus cloaks an ancient and cruel
superstition in a modern and humane dress.  
 Conclusion  
The advance of science during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries
slowly but
surely eroded the popular belief that malformed and retarded children
likely
were not human at all, but rather the offspring of some demonic being,
offspring
that could be neglected, abused, and even put to death with no moral
compunctions.  As these theological explanations for retardation gave way
to
medical explanations, community values and personal attitudes changed to
such an
extent that the very word "changeling," its synonym "killcrop," and their
equivalents in other languages now have become historical curiosities,
survivals
of beliefs and practices that helped our northern European forebears --
for good
or for bad -- face the problems of life and death when confronted with
mentally
or physically defective children.