There was once upon a time a woman named Pascadozzia. As she was standing 
one day at a window, which looked into the garden of an ogress, she saw a 
beautiful bed of parsley, for which she took such a longing that she was 
on the point of fainting away; and being unable to resist her desire, she 
watched until the ogress went out, and then plucked a handful of it.   
But when the ogress came home, and was going to cook her pottage, she 
found that some one had been at the parsley, and said, "Ill luck to me but 
I'll catch this long-fingered rogue, and make him repent it, and teach him 
to his cost that every one should eat off his own platter, and not meddle 
with other folks' cups."   
The poor woman went again and again down into the garden, until one 
morning the ogress met her, and in a furious rage exclaimed, "Have I 
caught you at last, you thief, you rogue? Prithee do you pay the rent of 
the garden, that you come in this impudent way and steal my plants? By my 
faith, but I'll make you do penance!"  
Poor Pascadozzia, in a terrible fright, began to make excuses, saying that 
neither from gluttony nor the craving of hunger had she been tempted by 
the devil to commit this fault, but fear she had lest the child should be 
born with a crop of parsley on its face; and she added that the ogress 
ought rather to thank her, for not having given her sore eyes.   
"Words are but wind," answered the ogress; "I am not to be caught with 
such prattle; you have closed the balance sheet of life, unless you 
promise to give me the child you bring forth, girl or boy, whichever it 
may be."   
Poor Pascadozzia, in order to escape the peril in which she found herself, 
swore with one hand upon another to keep the promise. So the ogress let 
her go free. But when her time was come, Pascadozzia gave birth to a 
little girl, so beautiful that she was a joy to look upon, who, from 
having a fine sprig of parsley on her bosom, was named Parsley.   
And the little girl grew from day to day, until when she was seven years 
old her mother sent her to school; and every time she went along the 
street and met the ogress, the old woman said to her, "Tell your mother to 
remember her promise."   
And she went on repeating this message so often, that the poor mother, 
having no longer patience to listen to the same tale, said one day to 
Parsley, "If you meet the old woman as usual, and she reminds you of the 
hateful promise, answer her, 'Take it!'"   
When Parsley, who dreamt of no ill, met the ogress again, and heard her 
repeat the same words, she answered innocently as her mother had told her; 
whereupon the ogress, seizing her by her hair, carried her off to a wood, 
which the sun never entered. Then she put the poor girl into a tower, 
which she caused to arise by her art, and which had neither gate nor 
ladder, but only a little window, through which she ascended and descended 
by means of Parsley's hair, which was very long, as the sailor is used to 
run up and down the mast of a ship.   
Now it happened one day, when the ogress had left the tower, that Parsley 
put her head out of the little window, and let loose her tresses in the 
sun; and the son of a prince passing by saw these two golden banners, 
which invited all souls to enlist under the standard of love; and 
beholding with amazement in the midst of those gleaming waves a siren's 
face, that enchanted all hearts, he fell desperately in love with such 
wonderful beauty; and sending her a memorial of sighs, she decreed to 
receive him into favor.   
Matters went on so well with the prince, that there was soon a nodding of 
heads and kissing of hands, thanks and offerings, hopes and promises, soft 
words and compliments. And when this had continued for several days, 
Parsley and the prince became so intimate that they made an appointment to 
meet, and agreed that it should be at night, and that Parsley should give 
the ogress some poppy juice, and draw up the prince with her tresses. So 
when the appointed hour came, the prince went to the tower, where Parsley, 
letting fall her hair at a given signal, he seized it with both his hands, 
and cried, "Draw up!" And when he was drawn up, he crept through the 
little window into the chamber.   
The next morning early, the prince descended by the same golden ladder, to 
go his way home. And having repeated these visits many times, a gossip of 
the ogress, who was for ever prying into things that did not concern her, 
and poking her nose into every corner, got to find out the secret, and 
told the ogress to be upon the lookout, for that Parsley was courted by a 
youth.   
The ogress thanked the gossip for the information, and said she would take 
good care to stop up the road; and as to Parsley, it was impossible for 
her to escape, as she had laid a spell upon her, so that, unless she had 
in her hand the three gallnuts which were in a rafter in the kitchen, it 
would be labor lost to attempt to get away.   
Whilst they were talking thus together, Parsley, who stood with her ears 
wide open, and had some suspicion of the gossip, overheard all that 
passed. And when night had spread out her black garments, and the prince 
had come as usual, she made him climb onto the rafters and find the 
gallnuts, knowing well what effect they would have, as she had been 
enchanted by the ogress. Then, having made a rope ladder, they both 
descended to the ground, took to their heels, and scampered off towards 
the city.   
But the gossip happening to see them come out, set up a loud halloo, and 
began to shout and make such a noise that the ogress awoke; and seeing 
that Parsley had fled, she descended by the same ladder, which was 
fastened to the window, and set off running after the lovers, who, when 
they saw her coming at their heels faster than a horse let loose, gave 
themselves up for lost. But Parsley, recollecting the gallnuts, quickly 
threw one on the ground, and lo! instantly a Corsican bulldog started up, 
-- a terrible beast! -- which with open jaws and barking loud flew at the 
ogress as if to swallow her at a mouthful. But the old woman, who was more 
cunning and spiteful than the devil, put her hand into her pocket, and 
pulling out a piece of bread, gave it to the dog, which made him hang his 
tail and allay his fury.   
Then she turned to run after the fugitives again; but Parsley, seeing her 
approach, threw the second gallnut on the ground, and lo! a fierce lion 
arose, who, lashing the earth with his tail, and shaking his mane, and 
opening wide his jaws a yard apart, was just preparing to make a slaughter 
of the ogress; when, turning quickly back, she stripped the skin off an 
ass that was grazing in the middle of a meadow, and ran at the lion, who, 
fancying it a real jackass, was so frightened that he bounded away as fast 
as he could.   
The ogress, having leaped over this second ditch, turned again to pursue 
the poor lovers, who, hearing the clatter of her heels and seeing the 
cloud of dust that rose up to the sky, conjectured that she was coming 
again. But the old woman, who was every moment in dread lest the lion 
should pursue her, had not taken off the ass's skin; and when Parsley now 
threw down the third gallnut, there sprang up a wolf, who, without giving 
the ogress time to play any new trick, gobbled her up just as she was, in 
the shape of a jackass.   
So the lovers, being now freed from danger, went their way leisurely and 
quietly to the kingdom of the prince, where, with his father's free 
consent, he took Parsley to wife; and thus, after all these storms of 
fate, they experienced the truth, that 
  
One hour in port, the sailor freed from fears   
Forgets the tempests of a hundred years. 
  
Zeza's story was listened to with such delight to the end, that, had it 
even continued for an hour longer, the time would have appeared only a 
moment.