In the northwest corner of the parish of Beddgelert there is a place
which used to be called by the old inhabitants the  Land of the
Fairies , and it reaches from Cwm Hafod Ruffydd along the slope of the
mountain of Drws y Coed as far as Llyn y Dywarchen.  The old people of
former times used to find much pleasure and amusement in this district in
listening every moonlight night to the charming music of the fair family,
and in looking at their dancing and their mirthful sports. 
 One on a time, a long while ago, there lived at upper Drws y Coed a
youth, who was joyous and active, brave and determined of heart.  This
young man amused himself every night by looking on and listening to them.
One night they had come to a field near the house, near the shore of Llyn
y Dywarchen, to pass a merry night.  He went, as usual, to look at them,
when his glances at once fell on one of the ladies, who possessed such
beauty as he had never seen in a human being.  Her appearance was like
that of alabaster; her voice was as agreeable as the nightingale's, and as
unruffled as the zephyr in a flower garden at the noon of a long summer's
day; and her gait was pretty and aristocratic; her feet moved in the dance
as lightly on the grass as the rays of the sun had a few hours before on
the lake hard by. 
 He fell in love with her over head and ears, and in the strength of
that passion -- for what is stronger than love! -- he rushed, when the
bustle was at its height, into the midst of the fair crowd, and snatched
the graceful damsel in his arms, and ran instantly with her to the
house. 
 When the fair family saw the violence used by a mortal, they broke up
the dance and ran after her toward the house; but, when they arrived, the
door had been bolted with iron, wherefore they could not get near her or
touch her in any way; and the damsel had been placed securely in a
chamber. 
 The youth, having her now under his roof, as is the saying, endeavored,
with all his talent, to win her affection and to induce her to wed.  But
at first she would on no account hear of it.  On seeing his persistence,
however, and on finding that he would not let her go to return to her
people, she consented to be his servant if he could find out her name; but
she would not be married to him. 
 As he thought that was not impossible, he half agreed to the condition;
but, after bothering his head with all the names known in that
neighborhood, he found himself no nearer his point, though he was not
willing to give up the search hurriedly. 
 One night, as he was going home from Carnarvon market, he saw a number
of the fair folks in a turbary not far from his path.  They seemed to him
to be engaged in an important deliberation, and it struck him that they
were planning how to recover their abducted sister.  He thought, moreover,
that if he could secretly get within hearing, he might possibly find her
name out.  On looking carefully around, he saw that a ditch ran through
the turbary and passed near the spot where they stood.  So he made his way
round to the ditch, and crept, on all fours, along it until he was within
hearing of the family. 
 After listening a little, he found that their deliberation was as to
the fate of the lady he had carried away, and he heard one of them crying,
piteously, "O Penelop, O Penelop, my sister, why didst thou run away with
a mortal!" 
 "Penelop," said the young man to himself, "that must be the name of my
beloved; that is enough." 
 At once he began to creep back quietly, and he returned home safely
without having been seen by the fairies.  When he got into the house, he
called out to the girl, saying, "Penelop, my beloved one, come here!" and
she came forward and asked, in astonishment, "O mortal, who has betrayed
my name to thee?" 
 Then, lifting up her tiny folded hands, she exclaimed, "Alas, my fate,
my fate!"   
 But she grew contented with her fate, and took to her work in earnest.
Everything in the house and on the farm prospered under her charge.  There
was no better or cleanlier housewife in the neighborhood around, or one
that was more provident than she. 
 The young man, however, was not satisfied that she should be a servant
to him, and, after he had long and persistently sought it, she consented
to be married, on the one condition, that, if ever he should touch her
with iron, she would be free to leave him and return to her family. 
 He agreed to that condition, since he believed that such a thing would
never happen at his hands. 
 So they were marred, and lived several years happily and comfortably
together.  Two children where born to them, a boy and a girl, the picture
of their mother and the idols of their father.  But one morning, when the
husband wanted to go to the fair at Carnarvon, he went out to catch a
filly that was grazing in the field by the house; but for the life of him
he could not catch her, and he called to his wife to come to assist
him. 
 She came without delay, and they managed to drive the filly to a secure
corner, as they thought; but, as the man approached to catch her, she
rushed past him.  In his excitement, he threw the bridle after her; but
who should be running in the direction of it, but his wife! 
 The iron bit struck her on the cheek, and she vanished out of sight on
the spot.  Her husband never saw her any more; but one cold frosty night,
a long time after this event, he was awakened from his sleep by somebody
rubbing the glass of his window, and, after he had given a response, he
recognized the gentle and tender voice of his wife saying to him: 
 Lest my son should find it cold, 
Place on him his father's coat; 
Lest the fair one find it cold, 
Place on her my petticoat. 
 It is said that the descendants of this family still continue in these
neighborhoods, and that they are easy to be recognized by their light and
fair complexion.