On a high pasture land, near an immense precipice, some maidens were
occupied in spinning and attending to their grazing cattle, when an old
strange looking man with a white beard reaching down to his girdle
approached, and said, "Oh fair maidens, beware of the abyss, for if one of
you should drop her spindle down the cliff, her mother would be turned
into a cow that very moment!"
 So saying the aged man disappeared, and the girls, bewildered by his
words, and discussing the strange incident, approached near to the ravine
which had suddenly become interesting to them. They peered curiously over
the edge, as though expecting to see some unaccustomed sight, when
suddenly the most beautiful of the maidens let her spindle drop from her
hand, and before she could recover it, it was bounding from rock to rock
into the depths beneath. When she returned home that evening she found her
worst fears realized, for her mother stood before the door transformed
into a cow.
 A short time later her father married again. His new wife was a widow,
and brought a daughter of her own into her new home. This girl was not
particularly well favored, and her mother immediately began to hate her
stepdaughter because of the latter's good looks. She forbade her
henceforth to wash her face, to comb her hair or to change her clothes,
and in every way she could think of she sought to make her miserable.
 One morning she gave her a bag filled with hemp, saying, "If you do not
spin this and make a fine top of it by tonight, you need not return home,
for I intend to kill you."
 The poor girl, deeply dejected, walked behind the cattle, industriously
spinning as she went, but by noon when the cattle lay down in the shade to
rest, she observed that she had made but little progress and she began to
weep bitterly.
 Now, her mother was driven daily to pasture with the other cows, and
seeing her daughter's tears she drew near and asked why she wept,
whereupon the maiden told her all. Then the cow comforted her daughter,
saying, "My darling child, be consoled! Let me take the hemp into my mouth
and chew it; through my ear a thread will come out. You must take the end
of this and wind it into a top." So this was done; the hemp was soon spun,
and when the girl gave it to her stepmother that evening, she was greatly
surprised.
 Next morning the woman roughly ordered the maiden to spin a still
larger bag of hemp, and as the girl, thanks to her mother, spun and wound
it all, her stepmother, on the following day, gave her twice the quantity
to spin. Nevertheless, the girl brought home at night even that unusually
large quantity well spun, and her stepmother concluded that the poor girl
was not spinning alone, but that other maidens, her friends, were giving
her help. Therefore she, next morning, sent her own daughter to spy upon
the poor girl and to report what she saw. The girl soon noticed that the
cow helped the poor orphan by chewing the hemp, while she drew the thread
and wound it on a top, and she ran back home and informed her mother of
what she had seen. Upon this, the stepmother insisted that her husband
should order that particular cow to be slaughtered. Her husband at first
hesitated, but as his wife urged him more and more, he finally decided to
do as she wished.
 On learning what had been decided, the stepdaughter wept more than
ever, and when her mother asked what was the matter, she told her
tearfully all that had been arranged. Thereupon the cow said to her
daughter, "Wipe away your tears, and do not cry any more. When they
slaughter me, you must take great care not to eat any of the meat, but
after the repast, carefully collect my bones and inter them behind the
house under a certain stone; then, should you ever be in need of help,
come to my grave and there you will find it."
 The cow was killed, and when the meat was served the poor girl declined
to eat of it, pretending that she had no appetite; after the meal she
gathered with great care all the bones and buried them on the spot
indicated by her mother.
 Now, the name of the maiden was Marra, but, as she had to do the
roughest work of the house, such as carrying water, washing, and sweeping,
she was called by her stepmother and stepsister Pepelyouga (Cinderella).
 One Sunday, when the stepmother and her daughter had dressed themselves
for church, the woman spread about the house the contents of a basktetful
of millet, and said, "Listen, Pepelyouga; if you do not gather up all this
millet and have dinner ready by the time we return from church, I will
kill you!"
 When they had gone, the poor girl began to weep, reflecting, "As to the
dinner I can easily prepare it, but how can I possibly gather up all this
millet?" But that very moment she recalled the words of the cow, that, if
she ever should be struck by misfortune, she need but walk to the grave
behind the house, when she would find instant help there. Immediately she
ran out, and, when she approached the grave, lo! a chest was lying on the
grave wide open, and inside were beautiful dresses and everything
necessary for a lady's toilet. Two doves were sitting on the lid of the
chest, and as the girl drew near, they said to her, "Marra, take from the
chest the dress you like the best, clothe yourself, and go to church. As
to the millet and other work, we ourselves will attend to that and see
that everything is in good order!"
 Marra needed no second invitation; she took the first silk dress she
touched, made her toilet, and went to church, where her entrance created
quite a sensation. Everybody, men and women, greatly admired her beauty
and her costly attire, but they were puzzled as to who she was, and where
she came from. A prince happened to be in the church on that day, and he,
too, admired the beautiful maiden.
 Just before the service ended, the girl stole from the church, went
hurriedly home, took off her beautiful clothes and placed them back in the
chest, which instantly shut and became invisible. She then rushed to the
kitchen, where she discovered that the dinner was quite ready, and that
the millet was gathered into the basket. Soon the stepmother came back
with her daughter, and they were astounded to find the millet gathered up,
dinner prepared, and everything else in order. A desire to learn the
secret now began to torment the stepmother mightily.
 Next Sunday everything happened as before, except that the girl found
in the chest a silver dress, and that the prince felt a greater admiration
for her, so much so that he was unable, even for a moment to take his eyes
from her. On the third Sunday, the mother and daughter again prepared to
go to church, and, having scattered the millet as before, she repeated her
previous threats. As soon as they disappeared, the girl ran straight to
her mother's grave, where she found, as on the previous occasions, the
open chest and the same two doves. This time she found a dress made of
gold lace, and she hastily clad herself in it and went to church, where
she was admired by all, even more than before. As for the czar's son, he
had come with the intention not to let her this time out of his sight, but
to follow and see where she went. Accordingly, as the service drew near to
its close, and the maiden withdrew quietly as before, the enamored prince
followed after her. Marra hurried along, for she had none too much time,
and, as she went, one of her golden slippers came off, and she was too
agitated to stop and pick it up. The prince, however, who had lost sight
of the maiden, saw the slipper and put it in his pocket. Reaching home,
Marra took off her golden dress, laid it in the chest, and rushed back to
the house.
 The prince now resolved to go from house to house throughout his
father's realm in search of the owner of the slipper, inviting all the
fair maidens to try on the golden slipper. But, alas! his efforts seemed
to be doomed to failure; for some girls the slipper was too long, for
others too short, for others, again, too narrow. There was no one whom it
would fit.
 Wandering from door to door, the sad prince at length came to the house
of Marra's father. The stepmother was expecting him, and she had hidden
her stepdaughter under a large trough in the courtyard. When the prince
asked whether she had any daughters, the stepmother answered that she had
but one, and she presented the girl to him. The prince requested the girl
to try on the slipper, but, squeeze as she would, there was not room in it
even for her toes! Thereupon the prince asked whether it was true that
there were no other girls in the house, and the stepmother replied that
indeed it was quite true.
 That very moment a cock flew onto the trough and crowed out lustily,
" Kook-oo-ryeh-koooo!  Here she is under this very trough!"
 The stepmother, enraged, exclaimed, "Sh! Go away! May an eagle seize
you and fly off with you!" The curiosity of the prince was aroused. He
approached the trough, lifted it up, and, to his great surprise, there was
the maiden whom he had seen three times in church, clad in the very same
golden dress she had last worn, and having only one golden slipper.
 When the prince recognized the maiden he was overcome with joy. Quickly
he tried the slipper on her dainty foot. It not only fit her admirably,
but it exactly matched the one she already wore on her left foot. He
lifted her up tenderly and escorted her to his palace. Later he won her
love, and they were happily married.