There was once a princess, yonder in England,
who was so beautiful that none might compare
to her, and she actually had it printed in the papers 
but at the same time she was so haughty that she
scarcely recognized herself.   
The king, here in Denmark,
had a son, who also had a good opinion of
himself, and it occurred to him to set forth and sue
for the princess's hand. So he took ship and set sail
with a great retinue. When he reached London, he
went to the castle and told the king of his intentions.
The king said he had no objection, save that the
princess must have a free hand in the matter, and
so they called her. But when the prince made his
proposal, she threw back her head, and said she no
more wished to have any dealings with him than
with her father's blacking-brush or blacking. And
with that he was at liberty to march off.   
Now he decided that he would play a trick on her
in payment for her answer. So he went back to his
ship, and had his things brought ashore and placed
in a room which he had hired, and instructed his
people to sail home and tell his father he would not
be back for the present.   
Then he told his servant to go to town, find the
shabbiest vagabond to be met with, and change
clothes with him. The servant went up and down
the streets, and there saw many a poor devil; but
it was his task to find the most wretched-looking of
all.   
At last he heard voices in a cellar and went
down. There sat a fellow called Peter Redhat, and
he was the raggedest the servant had seen thus far.
The servant asked whether he would change clothes
with him. But Peter Redhat grew furious, because
he thought the other wished to make a fool of him.
Yet he was quite in earnest, and so the change was
made. Peter had an enormously large, broad-brimmed
hat, known throughout the city; and this
the servant obtained as well. Back he went to the
prince with these clothes, and all was satisfactory.   
In the meantime the prince had visited a goldsmith,
and had ordered a golden distaff, a golden
spindle, and a golden yarn-reel, and when they were
ready he put on Peter Redhat's clothes and went
with his golden distaff to the king's garden. There
he sat down and began to spin beneath the princess's
windows.   
When she awoke and saw Peter Redhat
sitting there, spinning with a golden distaff, she
sent down one of her maids to him, with the princess's
compliments, to ask whether she could not buy
the distaff from him.   
Yes, it could be done, but he
wished to speak to her himself.   
She did not much
care to do so, yet she had never seen anything quite
so handsome as the distaff, and she wanted it so
much that she made up her mind to go down to
Peter. Then she asked him what he asked for the
distaff.   
All he wanted was permission to sit in her
room for a night. The princess was half inclined
to be angry, and turned on her heel with the words:
"No! Fie, for shame, that such a pig should sit in
my room! That cannot be."   
But that was the only 
way she could obtain the distaff, said he, for he
would not sell it for money.   
The princess looked at
the distaff, and her wish to possess it grew stronger,
and the longer she looked the more she wanted it;
till she felt that she simply could not go on living
without the distaff. So she discussed with her
ladies-in-waiting whether the matter might be arranged.
They decided that it might, if he were willing
to promise to remain seated in one and the same
place, and they remained on guard in the room overnight.  
So she received the distaff, and at evening Peter
Redhat came and sat him down on a chair near a
little table. There he sat all night long, and did
not move from the spot. In the morning he had to
leave, so he went down and took his golden spindle.
The princess slept late, and when she awoke she saw 
Peter Redhat sitting in the garden, reeling the yarn
that he had spun the day before.   
When the princess
saw the spindle she sent down one of her maids,
with her compliments, to ask whether she could not
buy the spindle from him.   
Yes, the princess could
buy it, but he wished to talk to her himself. So she
came down to him, for she wanted the spindle very
much, and it seemed to her that it must be joined
to the distaff.   
"What does it cost?" she asked him.   
It cost no
more than the permission to sit over-night by the
side of her bed.
"Fie, for shame! Peter Redhat sitting beside my
bed," cried she, "that would never do!"   
But she
could get the spindle no other way. So she went in
to her ladies-in-waiting, and asked whether they did
not think that he might be allowed to sit beside her
bed, if all twelve of them sat there too, and three or
four lights were placed on the table, because she had
such a desire to obtain the spindle. And they decided
that if they put the table, with five lights on it, close
to the bed, and then stationed themselves around the
table, close to the bed, it might answer.   
So she got
the spindle, and Peter Redhat came that evening
and sat down in a chair beside the bed in which she
lay. But the princess did not sleep much that night,
because Peter Redhat sat there and looked at her
the whole night through.   
When day dawned he had to leave again, and this
time he went home and took the golden bobbin, for
now he had to wind the yarn that he had reeled the
day before. The princess slept somewhat late; but
when she awoke and came to the window, there sat
Peter Redhat, diligently winding yarn. She at once
fell in love with the bobbin, for she had never yet
seen one so beautiful, and if she could obtain it she
would have the complete spinning-set.   
She sent
down one of her ladies, with her compliments, to ask
whether she could not buy the bobbin.   
Yes, surely
she could buy the bobbin, but he himself wished to
talk to her. So she had to come down to Peter for
the third time.
"What does the bobbin cost?" she asked him.   
No more than permission to lie at the foot of the
princess's bed that night.  
Fie, for shame, that Peter Redhat should lie at
the foot of her bed! That could never be! And
she grew angry.   
But there was no other way of
getting the bobbin, and so she consulted her ladies-in-waiting about it. 
They thought that if she placed
twelve chairs along the sides of the bed, and one of
them were to sit on each chair with a lighted candle,
it might be done, for, of course, they knew what the
princess wanted.   
The princess received the bobbin,
and at evening, when she had gone to bed, Peter
Redhat came. She lay as close as she could to the
wall, and he was ordered to lie as closely as lie could
against the foot of the bed. Then he began to undress,
and he flung one garment here and another
there, and his big red hat he threw in front of the
door. Then he lay down and at once began to snore,
so that the walls shook.   
Now the ladies-in-waiting had been on guard for
two nights in succession and, one after another, they
fell asleep, and the candles fell from their hands,
and went out and at last there was only a single
light left burning -- all the other ladies were sleeping.   
Then the princess said that since he was sleeping
so very soundly, the light might be put out, if
only the ladies would be ready to come should she
call them.   
But the ladies were not called, and all of
them slept so very late, right into the next forenoon,
that the king himself came to wake his
daughter. But when he opened the door he could
not get in, because of Peter's hat, which he first had
to shove aside. The king recognized the hat at once,
and became furiously angry.   
Peter Redhat had to
get up, into his clothes and be off as soon as possible;
and then came his daughter's turn. She was
banished from the country and had to leave that
very day So she had to make the best of it and see
that she got away. Some money was given her, but
it was far too little, since she now had to look out
for herself, and was not used to traveling alone.
When she drove off, Peter Redhat sat up behind, and
when she stopped at an inn to remain overnight,
Peter Redhat stopped there too. She saw to it that
she had the best of everything, but Peter Redhat
lived as simply as possible.   
On the following day she drove on, and so it went
for several days; while Peter always saw to it that
he kept pace with her. In the course of time the
princess's money came to an end, and she had to go
a-foot.   
Peter took a couple of good sandwiches
with him and when the princess started out, he
started out at the same time. He passed her and
said good-day, but she did not answer him, and
would not even glance at the side of the road on
which he walked. In the evening they reached an
inn, and she was given the best room, while Peter
had to be satisfied with one less than second-best.   
On the following day he passed her again, and when
he said good-day to her, she was at last able to look
around and thank him. Then he asked her whether
she would not like to have a sandwich.   
Yes, she
would, for her money was going fast; soon she
would be unable to pay for a night's lodging. Then
Peter said he would pay for her. They came to an
inn and left it again the following morning. Then
he told her that he could not keep on paying her way
because his money was also coming to an end. They
came to a river and had to cross, and Peter paid for 
both. When they had crossed, it was evening, and
again they had to look for a place where they might
spend the night.   
They were in the prince's own
country by this time, and they came to a forest close
to his father's castle. Now the princess had to
thank God that she had Peter Redhat; for there
was no one else upon whom she could lean, and
they found a tiny hut in the woods, where they
stayed.   
"What shall we do now? We have not a single
shilling left!" She did not know what to suggest.  
"Then there is nothing left for us to do," said he,
"but wander about and beg; for, of course, we cannot
steal."   
So they agreed to meet at the hut once or twice
a day. She made a little bag to hold meal, and grits
and bread-crusts, and then they separated and each
went his way for the day.   
Of course the prince went home to the castle, and
brought back a large purse of gold in his pocket;
but she wandered about and gathered such scraps
as the people gave her, and in the evening they met
in the hut. He asked her what she had taken in, and
she showed him: a few pieces of bread, a little meal
and grits, and a few bits of meat.   
"Oh," said he, "you do not bring back much when
you go a-begging! Just see what I have!"   
And he drew the big purse with all the money in it from 
his pocket, and said that it was what he had collected
that day.   
"But it would be best for us to take service somewhere."   
Yes, she was willing, was her answer.   
"Well, what work can you do?" he asked her.   
She would prefer to find a place as a seamstress.  
He did not know whether she could manage to get
a place as a seamstress, but he did know where they
would take her in to wash dishes. The fact was that
the following day there was to be a great banquet
at court, because the prince had returned and, to
judge by what the people said, there would be a
wedding.   
Then he made her believe that he had found employment
at the castle as a wood-chopper, and so
he would be able to have her out in the kitchen.   
"But could you not arrange to bring me a pot of
soup at dinner-time from what is left on the table?"   
"Yes, but how am I to manage to carry it to you
without attracting attention?" said she.   
"You can tie a cord around your waist, under
your apron, and hang the pot on it."   
She thought she could manage this, and he told
her which way to go in order to meet him.   
In the morning she went up to the castle and began
her work. They gave her a pair of old kettles
to scour, and she nearly scoured them to pieces; 
but the prince had told the cook in advance that a
girl would put in an appearance at a certain time,
and that he was to give her plenty to do, but she
was not to be otherwise molested, and they were
not to push, beat or handle her ungently.   
When the court had eaten dinner, the kitchen-maid asked
permission to go to town for a while; and filling
a little pot with soup and meat, she tied it under
her apron, and started out to find Peter Redhat.  
She had to pass several doors at which guards were
standing, who invited her to come in and dance with
them; for on that day whoever wished to was allowed
to enter the great hall and dance.   
But she
excused herself, saying that she had no time to
spare. At last she saw the door through which
Peter had told her to pass, and there someone
seized her, and dragged her into the hall where the
banquet was in progress. The prince came up at
once, and led her out to dance, and she had to yield,
willy-nilly. But she did not recognize him, for he
was wearing his princely clothes.   
The music began,
and the prince danced with her so lustily that the
dumplings and scraps fairly rolled all around the
floor. Everyone wanted to know whose they were,
because a number of others were also dancing. But
she at once admitted that she was guilty. She had
a sweetheart, she said, who was employed in the
castle, and she had been on her way to him with a 
little pot of soup.   
Then the king asked her which
way she had been told to take. Her sweetheart had
told her she should pass through the door at the
right-hand side of the castle gate.   
Then the king
asked her again whether she would recognize the
man again if she saw him.   
Indeed she would recognize
him, for they had traveled many miles together.   
"Then pick him out," said the king, "for here are
all the people who are employed in the castle."   
No, he was not among them, said she. But the king
kept on talking to her, and meanwhile the prince
stole out of the room, put on the old clothes he had
worn while they had been together, went outside
and walked past the window at which she stood.   
Then she pointed him out and said: "That is my
sweetheart walking there."   
Thereupon he came in
to them, and the king himself could hardly recognize
him as he now appeared.   
He said to the princess:
"Do you not think it might have been better for you
had you taken the king's son out of Denmark, of
whom you made so much fun?"   
"Ah, do not speak of it," said she, "I have trouble
enough as it is."  
"Yes, but if he is still willing to take you, do you
think he would be good enough for you?"   
"It would be wonderful, no doubt, but that opportunity
will never recur."   
"And yet it might," said he, "if you promise me
that you will never again be ruled by arrogance and
haughtiness."   
Then he told his father and guests that this was
the princess for whose sake he had traveled to England;
and that he had played a trick upon her because
she had been so arrogant when he had sought
her out the first time, and had not been willing to
so much as look at him. But now he was convinced
that she had changed, and that the time had come
when she should know who he really was, and be
raised from her low estate.   
So they brought her
garments, and he laid aside Peter Redhat's rags,
and the wedding was held at once. Since he was
the crown-prince of the land, he became king after
his father's death and she, as was no more than
right, became queen. But her parents always held
a grudge against him because he had humiliated her.