There were once upon a time a peasant and his wife who lived in
Jutland, but they had no children. They often lamented that fact and were
also sad to think that they had no relatives to whom to leave their farm
and other possessions. So the years went by and they became richer and
richer, but there was no one to inherit their wealth. 
 One year the farmer bought a fine calf which he called Peter, and it
was really the finest animal that he had ever seen, and so clever that it
seemed to understand nearly everything that one said to it. It was also
very amusing and affectionate, so that the man and his wife soon became as
fond of it as if it were their own child. 
 One day the farmer said to his wife, "Perhaps the sexton of our church
could teach Peter to talk then we could not do better than to adopt him as
our child, and he could then inherit all our property." 
 "Who can tell?" said the wife, "Our sexton is a learned man and perhaps
he might be able to teach Peter to talk, for Peter is really very clever.
Suppose you ask the sexton." 
 So the farmer went over to the sexton and asked him whether he did not
believe that he could teach his calf to talk, because he wanted to make
the animal his heir. The crafty sexton looked around to see that no one
was near, and then said that he thought he could do so. "Only you must not
tell anybody," he said, "for it must be a great secret, and the minister
in particular must not know anything about it, or I might get into serious
trouble as such things are strictly forbidden. Moreover it will cost a
pretty penny as we shall need rare and expensive books." The farmer said
that he did not mind, and handing the sexton a hundred dollars to buy
books with, promised not to say a word about the arrangement to
anyone. 
 That evening the man brought his calf to the sexton who promised to do
his best. In about a week the farmer returned to see how his calf was
getting on, but the sexton said that he did not dare let him see the
animal, else Peter might become homesick and forget all that he had
already learned. Otherwise he was making good progress, but the farmer
must pay another hundred dollars, as Peter needed more books. The peasant
happened to have the money with him, so he gave it to the sexton and went
home filled with hope and pleasant anticipations. 
 At the end of another week the man again went to make inquiry about
Peter, and was told by the sexton that he was doing fairly well. "Can he
say anything?" asked the farmer. 
 "Yes, he can say 'ma,'" answered the sexton. 
 "The poor animal is surely ill," said the peasant, "and he probably
wants mead. I will go straight home and bring him a jug of it." So he
fetched a jug of good, old mead and gave it to the sexton for Peter. The
sexton, however, kept the mead and gave the calf some milk instead. 
 A week later the farmer came again to find out what Peter could say
now. "He still refuses to say anything but 'ma,'" said the sexton. 
 "Oh! he is a cunning rogue;" said the peasant, "so he wants more mead,
does he? Well, I'll get him some more, as he likes it so much. But what
progress has he made?" 
 "He is doing so well," answered the sexton, "that he needs another
hundred dollars' worth of books, for he cannot learn anything more from
those that he has now." 
 "Well then, if he needs them he shall have them." So that same day the
farmer brought another hundred dollars and a jug of good, old mead for
Peter. 
 Now the peasant allowed a few weeks to elapse without calling on Peter,
for he began to be afraid that each visit would cost him a hundred
dollars. In the meantime the calf had become as fat as he would ever be,
so the sexton killed him and sold the meat carefully at a distance from
the village. Having done that he put on his black clothes and went to call
on the farmer and his wife. As soon as he had bid them good day he asked
them whether Peter had reached home safe and sound. 
 "Why no," said the farmer, "he has not run away, has he?" 
 "I hope," said the sexton, "that after all the trouble I have taken he
has not been so tricky as to run away and to abuse my confidence so
shamefully. For I have spent at least a hundred dollars of my own money to
pay for books for him. Now Peter could say whatever he wanted, and he was
telling me only yesterday that he was longing to see his dear parents. As
I wanted to give him that pleasure, but feared that he would not be able
to find his way home alone, I dressed myself and started out with him. We
were hardly in the street when I suddenly remembered that I had left my
stick at home, so I ran back to get it. When I came out of the house
again, I found that Peter had run on alone. I thought, of course, that he
had gone back to your house. If he is not there, I certainly do not know
where he can be." 
 Then the people began to weep and lament that Peter was lost, now
especially when they might have had such pleasure with him, and after
paying out so much money for his education. And the worst of it was that
they were again without an heir. The sexton tried to comfort them and was
also very sorry that Peter had deceived them so. But perhaps he had only
lost his way, and the sexton promised that he would ask publicly in church
next Sunday whether somebody had not seen the calf. Then he bade the
farmer and his wife good-bye and went home and had some good roast veal
for dinner. 
 One day the sexton read in the paper that a new merchant, named Peter
Ox, had settled in the neighboring town. He put the paper into his pocket
and went straight to the farmer and read this item of news to him. "One
might almost believe," he said, "that this is your calf." 
 "Why yes," said the farmer, "who else should it be?" Then his wife
added, "Yes father, go at once to see him, for I feel sure that it can be
no other than our dear Peter. But take along plenty of money for he
probably needs it now that he has become a merchant." 
 On the following morning the farmer put a bag of money on his shoulder,
took with him some provisions, and started to walk to the town where the
merchant lived. Early next morning he arrived there and went straight to
the merchant's house. The servants told the man that the merchant had not
gotten up yet. "That does not make any difference for I am his father;
just take me up to his room." 
 So they took the peasant up to the bedroom where the merchant lay sound
asleep. And as soon as the farmer saw him, he recognized Peter. There were
the same thick neck and broad forehead and the same red hair, but
otherwise he looked just like a human being. Then the man went to him and
bade him good morning and said, "Well, Peter, you caused your mother and
me great sorrow when you ran away as soon as you had learned something.
But get up now and let me have a look at you and talk with you." 
 The merchant, of course, believed that he had a crazy man to deal with,
so he thought it best to be careful. "Yes I will get up," he said, and
jumped out of bed into his clothes as quickly as possible. 
 "Ah!" said the peasant, "now I see what a wise man our sexton was; he
has brought it to pass that you are like any other man. If I were not
absolutely certain of it, I should never dream that you were the calf of
our red cow. Will you come home with me?" The merchant said that he could
not as he had to attend to his business. "But you could take over my farm
and I would retire. Nevertheless if you prefer to stay in business, I am
willing. Do you need any money?" 
 "Well," said the merchant, "a man can always find use for money in his
business." 
 "I thought so," said the farmer, "and besides you had nothing to start
with, so I have brought you some money." And with that he poured out on
the table the bright dollars that covered it entirely. 
 When the merchant saw what kind of a man his new found acquaintance
was, he chatted with him in a very friendly manner and begged him to
remain with him for a few days. 
 "Yes indeed," said the farmer, "but you must be sure to call me father
from now on." 
 "But I have neither father nor mother living," answered Peter Ox. 
 "That I know perfectly well," the peasant replied, "for I sold your
real father in Copenhagen last Michaelmas, and your mother died while
calving. But my wife and I have adopted you as our child and you will be
our heir, so you must call me father." 
 The merchant gladly agreed to that and kept the bag of money; and
before leaving town the farmer made his will and bequeathed all his
possessions to Peter after his death. Then the man went home and told his
wife the whole story, and she was delighted to learn that the merchant
Peter Ox was really their own calf. 
 "Now you must go straight over to the sexton and tell him what has
happened;" she said, "and be sure to refund to him the hundred dollars
that he paid out of his own pocket for Peter, for he has earned all that
we have paid him, because of the joy that he has caused us in giving us
such a son and heir." 
 Her husband was of the same opinion and went to call on the sexton,
whom he thanked many times for his kindness and to whom he also gave two
hundred dollars. 
 Then the farmer sold his farm, and he and his wife moved into the town
where the merchant was, and lived with him happily until their death.