A peasant hat an ox, a very handsome and intelligent animal. He and his wife liked the animal so much and held him in such high esteem that they decided have him pursue an advanced education.   
The peasant went to a merchant in the city and asked him for advice. The merchant thought to himself how he might take advantage of the peasant's stupidity, and encouraged him to pursue his plan. He then told him that he had a friend, a lawyer, who could give lessons to the ox. The merchant immediately went to the lawyer, and the two of them conspired to charge the peasant two hundred thalers, which they would share. They would slaughter the ox, and share its meat as well.   
The peasant and his wife were delighted that they had found a teacher for their ox so quickly, and they resolved to take him to the lawyer as soon as possible.  The next day the peasant led the ox to the lawyer, who fed him some oats from a pewter dish, which pleased the peasant greatly.   
"So, my dear Össing," he said, "you're going to do a lot better than pulling a plow."   
With that he paid the two hundred thalers and made the lawyer promise to not mistreat  the ox. The peasant had barely left when the lawyer informed the merchant what had happened. They divided the money, slaughtered ox, and laughed heartily about the stupid peasant.   
Some time later the peasant went to the lawyer and asked if would not be able to see his ox.   
"No, that is not possible," said the lawyer. "A visit would disturb him."  But he assured the peasant that the ox was making good progress.   
The peasant returned a second and a third time, but he always received the same excuse. Finally, thinking that the peasant might become suspicious, the lawyer told him that his ox had become the pope in Rome.   
Amazed, the peasant asked how far it was to Rome.  
"It would take you an entire year to get there," was the answer.   
"Even if it were further away than that, I want to go," replied the peasant.   
He returned home and told his wife that he was going to Rome to bring back their ox. The next day he wrapped a piece of rope around his body and set forth for Rome.  He arrived there a long time later and immediately asked where the pope lived. Someone pointed out a beautiful palace to him. Seeing this from afar, he took great pleasure in his ox's good fortune.   
He went directly to the palace and tried to go inside, but a guard blocked his way.   
The peasant said, "Don't you know who I am? I'm here to take the pope with me.  His mother wants to see him."   
Because he looked so wild (he hadn't washed himself nor combed his hair during the entire long journey), and because he had spoken of taking someone away, the guard thought that the peasant was the devil, and he let him enter. The peasant went immediately to the pope's room, where he saw him at work writing.   
"Hello, my dear Össing," he called out. "It's good to see you again."   
With that he approached the pope and began petting him. He then unwrapped  the rope from his body, put it around the pope's neck, and said, "Come along now, my dear Össing, your mother wants to see you."   
He pulled him across the room. The pope was speechless with fear, for he too believed that the devil was taking him away.   
In the meantime the guard had sounded the alarm, and a crowd gathered, and they were terrified when they saw the peasant with the pope. Only a few were brave enough to ask the devil to please release their pope.   
"No, he has to come with me," was the answer. "His mother wants to see him."   
They offered the peasant a great sum of money, then even more, and finally he released the pope.   
Then he asked just what the pope's duties were, and they told him that the pope ruled over all the kings, princes, and preachers.  It pleased the old peasant that his ox had achieved such a high position.  He made the people promise that they would do no harm to his ox, and then made his way homeward.   
Once at home, he showed his wife the money that he had been given and told her of the high honors their ox had won, adding that the people in Rome liked him so much that they would never allow him to leave.  The old woman was just as happy as her husband, and the two of them boasted for a long time about their clever ox.