Once upon a time the king of the giants from the mountains of Kôh
Kâf came to visit the kingdoms of men. His name was Safeyd. As he
was wandering over the earth he entered a forest, and there he saw a merry
company of huntsmen chasing the deer. Their leader was a young prince
named Bairâm, and the beauty of this youth was so striking and so
unusual that the giant Safeyd felt that he loved him, and that he would
never again know happiness or contentment unless he became possessed of
him. So he turned himself into a fine horse, with a skin like snow and a
neigh like thunder, and in that form repeatedly crossed the path of the
prince to attract his attention.
 The prince was enchanted when he saw so noble a steed, and gave orders
that he should be caught. Safeyd was only too glad to permit himself to be
saddled and bridled, and to suffer the prince of whom he was enamoured to
vault onto his back. No sooner did he feel him safely seated, however,
than he galloped away, and never stopped until he had arrived at his own
palace in the mountains which girdle the earth. There he heaped on him
every favor, loaded him with gold and precious stones, gave him splendid
steeds and hundreds of attendants, clothed him in the richest apparel, and
lodged him in a magnificent palace.
 After eight days the giant Safeyd came to Bairâm and said, "I
shall now leave you for eight days. I must go to my brother's wedding.
You, however, will remain here. But take this key, which will admit you
into an inner garden, which hitherto no one has entered but myself. When
you go, go alone, and remember to lock the door again when you return."
 So the giant gave the prince the key, and at once set off for the
kingdom of his brother.
 That very evening Bairâm went to the garden, which surpassed all
he had ever imagined. There stood within it a wonderful pavilion of
jasper, set with precious stones. Fountains played on all sides, and the
trees, instead of fruit, were laden with rubies, emeralds, and sapphires.
Sitting down, he watched the fountains throwing up golden spray and the
reflections mirrored in the beautiful pools.
 Just then four milk-white doves flew onto a tree, and then settled in
the shape of four fairies by the edge of a tank of clear crystal water.
Their beauty seemed to dazzle his eyes.
 Having unrobed, they entered the water and began to bathe. And as they
were bathing, one of the said to the others, "I have had a dream, and by
my dream I can tell that one of us shall be parted from the rest."
 They then stepped one by one out of the water and began to dress. But
the most beautiful fairy of all could not find her clothes. Meanwhile, the
others, having finished dressing, turned once more into milk-white doves
and flew away, the fourth fairy, whose name was Ghulâb Bâno,
exclaiming as she bade them farewell, "It is my kismet. Some different
destiny awaits me here, and we shall never meet again."
 She then looked towards the steps and saw the prince. At once her heart
escaped from her body, and she fell in love with him.
 Now, it was the prince himself who had stolen the fairy's clothes and
hidden them, and, as he knew that if she recovered them she would change
into a milk-white dove again, he now brought out another suit, and she
clothed herself, and the two lovers remained in the garden.
 When eight days had passed, the giant Safeyd returned once more to his
house. And when Bairâm saw the huge chains which encircled his waist
he began to tremble with fear, but the giant reassured him saying, "Fear
not. Are you not master of all I possess?" And he ordered music to play
and dancing girls to assemble in numbers to beguile and cheer his spirits,
but they were all invisible.
 "To you see them?" asked the giant.
 "No," answered the prince. "I see nothing, but I hear the music and the
tinkling of anklets."
 "I will give you some of King Solomon's antimony," said the giant.
"Touch your eyes with it."
 And when Prince Bairâm had touch his eyes with King Solomon's
antimony he saw the whole place filled with troops of exquisite damsels,
dancing to the music of viol and drum.
 Now, the beautiful fairy whom the prince had captured in the garden was
one of the wives of the giant, and the giant knew all that had passed. But
his love for Bairâm was so great that he said to him, "Take not only
Ghulâb Bâno, but all I possess you can take as well."
 One day the fairy grew sad and said, "Give me leave to visit my father
and mother and to return."
 So the prince brought out her fairy clothes, and she changed into a
milk-white dove, and away she flew. But her parents, when they heard the
news, were angry that she had married a mortal, and they imprisoned her in
a gloomy subterranean city. Therefore she did not return. And as time went
on, and still she came not, Prince Bairâm began to pine and droop
from sorrow, and for his sake, too, the giant grew sad and melancholy.
 At last the prince cried, "I must follow her, and never come back till
I find her."
 "Are you quite resolved to go?" asked the giant.
 "I can no longer live," said he, "without her."
 Then the giant gave him three things: his invisible cap, some of King
Solomon's antimony, and one of his own hairs. So the prince set out, and
after many days he came to the subterranean city. But because it was all
in darkness, and he could not see his way, he rubbed his eyes with the
antimony, which made everything plain and clear before him.
 Then he inquired, and found that the fairy Ghulâb Bâno was
imprisoned in a lofty tower of one hundred iron doors. And when he found
himself before the tower he put on his magic cap, which rendered him
invisible, and which also compelled all the doors to fly wide open. He
then entered, and when he saw the fairy princess he took off his cap and
rushed into her arms, and with her he remained for many days.
 A woman can never keep a secret. It was not long before Ghulâb
Bâno began to whisper to some of her favorite maids, and to tell her
intimate friends the good fortune which had smiled on her in the midst of
her banishment. Then the news spread until it reached the ears of her
father. He collected his giants together, and, going to the tower, they
found the prince with the princess.
 They were horrified, and cried, "Come, let us kill him!"
 Immediately the prince awoke, and, seeing his peril, he put on his
magic cap, which made him invisible. Then he took the giant Safeyd's hair,
and held it in the flame of the lamp. And as the smoke rose a thousand
squadrons of giants at once assembled. There was a great battle. The enemy
were routed, and the enraged father compelled to surrender his daughter to
Prince Bairâm. After this Safeyd and the prince and the fairy
returned in triumph to their beautiful home.
 By and by, when some years had now elapsed, the prince began to long
for his own kingdom; and his longing grew so great that at last he
determined to go. The giant became very sad, but on account of his love
for him he allowed him leave.
 Then Ghulâb Bâno changed herself into an enormous bird, and
the prince mounted between her wings, and in a moment they alighted close
to the capital. There the prince disguised himself as a poor fakir, while
his wife became a milk-white dove. Then he entered the city and called on
his old nurse, who at once recognized him, and told him that his vizier
had seized the kingdom and was reigning in his stead.
 "And where are my wives?" asked Bairâm.
 "Three of your wives," answered she, "he took to be his wives; but the
fourth defied him, and because of her fidelity he imprisoned her in a pit.
There a son was born, and there the mother and the babe still remain, and
he feeds them with the leavings of his hounds."
 For a time the prince lodged with his nurse, the fairy having resumed
her own shape, but one day when he was out, news was taken to the false
king that a woman surpassing in beauty all the women of the earth had been
seen at the house of the old woman.
 So the false king rushed to the spot, seized Ghulâb Bâno by
the arm, and cried, "Come along with me!"
 "O king," answered she, "let me first go in and change my clothes."
 So she left him waiting at the door, but having entered her chamber,
she put on her fairy suit, and, at once changing into a milk-white dove,
flew out of the window, and sped far away, but the false king went back to
the palace vexed and defeated.
 When Bairâm returned, the first thing he said was, "Where is my
wife?"
 "She has gone to the vizier's," said the old woman. "He came and
carried her off."
 So the prince took out the giant's hair and held it again in the flame,
when instantly there rushed to his help thousands of giants with clubs and
swords, and the city was taken, the vizier and the three false wives were
slaughtered, while the faithful wife was delivered from the pit and
restored to the palace as queen once more.
 With her Prince Bairâm lived for some time, being always kind and
good to her; but he sighed for the fairy princess, who had flown back to
her father's house and had never returned. By degrees his melancholy
increased more and more, until, becoming mad he wandered about the city
and the palace and the forest, seeking in vain for his lost love.
 Meanwhile the giant Safeyd grew melancholy also, and at last he could
bear his grief no longer. So he set out for the kingdom of his friend
Bairâm, and, having found him, he carried him away and restored him
again to his fairy queen.
 With her he recovered his health, and his whole after-life was spent in
happiness and delight, sometimes with Ghulâb Bâno among the
mountains of Kôh Kâf, and sometimes with his faithful wife in
the capital of his own kingdom. But at last he left his wife for good and
never returned again.