Before the permanent allotment of lands, to every peasant, in sowing time, so much of the field or mark was assigned as was just and appropriate, and boundary posts were driven between his and his neighbor's allotment. Whoever removed such marks, though he might escape punishment in this world, could find no rest in the grave, but by way of penalty must plough every night on the spot where his sin lay hidden.  
Of such plowmen it is said, that when any person came near, they compelled him to drive their horses; and if any one were so forced into their service, there was no other way to get free again than to take notice of the place where he began, and after the first turn to cast away the reins. He might then pursue his way unscathed.  
 
 
 
 
Near Skive lies the manor of Krabbesholm, where there once dwelt a lady who wished to appropriate to herself an adjacent field, and therefore caused her overseer to put earth from the garden at Krabbesholm into his wooden shoes, with which he went to the field in dispute, and swore that he stood on the soil of Krabbesholm.   
The field was adjudged to the lady, but afterwards the overseer could not die before she had given it back; yet he, nevertheless, every night still goes round the field with earth in his wooden shoes.  
 
 
 
 
Three men belonging to Spandet, in North Schleswig, swore away the beautiful meadow of Elkjser from the village of Fjersted; in lieu of which the villagers got the inferior one of Sepkjser. They had also put earth in their shoes. After their death they were long to be seen wandering about the meadow, wringing their hands and crying:  
 
 
 
Med Ret og Skjel, 
Det ved vi vel, 
Elkjær ligger til Fjersted By, 
Sepkjær ligger til Spandet. 
 
 
By law and right, 
That know we well, 
Elkjær belongs to Fjersted town, 
Sepkjær belongs to Spandet.
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
Near Ebeltoft dwelt a peasant who possessed land and cattle in superabundance, paid taxes both to church and state, brought his tithes at the right time, gave to the poor, and went every Sunday to church; yet, notwithstanding all this, there was not an individual in the whole neighborhood that placed any real confidence in him.   
He died and was buried, but after having lain in the earth until harvest time, he was heard at night crying piteously over the field, "Boundary here! boundary there!"   
Now people discovered how in his lifetime he had acquired his wealth.