Ages ago, in olden times, there lived a powerful count. All the lands
far and wide belonged to him, and he had everything that his heart
desired. He shared his wealth and his happiness with a good wife, who was
as beautiful as the day and as dear as an angel. They had lived together
happily together for several months, and the days seemed to them to be as
short as minutes. One day the count was out hunting and went deeper and
deeper into the forest. In the heat of the hunt he went further than ever
before, and he became separated a good distance from the rest of his
party. As he stood there alone in the forest, a dwarf suddenly appeared
before him. The little forest dweller was only three feet tall, and his
full beard reached his knees. Angrily he rolled his fiery red eyes and
said, "What are you doing here? This is my realm, and you must pay a
penalty to me. If you do not give me your wife, you shall not leave this
forest alive."
 The count was considerably frightened by the dwarf's appearance and his
angry words, for he had often heard all kinds of spooky stories about
strength and the wickedness of the little man of the forest. His old nurse
had told him these stories when he was but a child. What was he to do?
This was a critical situation. The frightened count did not know how to
escape other than to try to beg and talk his way out.
 "Forgive me," said the count, "that I have trespassed upon your realm.
I did not know that it was yours, and I will certainly never do it again."
 But the wild dwarf would not be pacified, and he said, "What I have
said to you must happen. Either you or she."
 "Demand what else you will, and I shall give it to you," said the
count, "but do not insist upon this."
 Then the little man appeared to reconsider, and he said, "If must be
so, then I will place your fate in your wife's hands. I will give you both
one month's time. If she is able, in three attempts, to guess my name then
she shall be yours and free -- otherwise she shall belong to me."
 The count was somewhat comforted with this, but still his heart was
burdened. He made his way toward home, accompanied by the little man of
the forest. Both were serious, and neither spoke a word. After they had
gone some distance they came to an ancient gray-bearded fir tree. The
dwarf stopped here and said, "This is the boundary of my realm. I will
await your wife here at this fir tree, which is nine times older than the
other trees. Three times she may have three guesses! But if you do not
keep your word it will go badly for both of you."
 The count now walked slowly homeward, for his heart was heavy, and the
closer he came to his castle, the gloomier and sadder he became. As he
approached the gate, the countess, who had seen him from her window, came
out to meet him. She was filled with joy and happiness, for her husband
was home again. But she soon noticed that he was not happy, as he usually
was, but instead looked like seven days of rainy weather. This made her
sad and concerned, and she asked the count what was wrong with him.
 As soon as they entered the castle and were in the sitting room, the
tired and sad count told her how he had met the dwarf and how he had
wanted take the countess, and what conditions he had at last agreed to.
 When the countess heard this, she became as pale as a corpse, and her
beautiful, fine cheeks were wet with tears. Happiness and joy had now
disappeared from the castle, and everyone there became silent and sad. The
countess most often sat in an alcove thinking and thinking how short her
happiness had been, or she went to the castle chapel where she prayed and
cried.
 The count no longer went out hunting nor to the jousting matches but
sat instead on his old chair, richly decorated with carvings, on which his
ancestors had also sat. Supporting his head with his right hand, he
contemplated, but he himself did not know about what.
 Thus passed day after day and week after week, until finally there were
three days left in the month. The count and countess went out into the
forest, then further and further until they could see the old gray-bearded
fir tree in the distance. The count stayed behind, and the countess
proceeded alone. Otherwise it was beautiful in the forest. The birds were
singing; the squirrels were jumping about or sitting there splitting pine
cones; and the wild roses were blossoming so beautifully white and red.
But the countess had a heavy heart as never before, and she sadly walked
on until she came to the fir tree.
 The dwarf, beautifully dressed in green and red, was waiting for her. A
mischievous pleasure overcame him when he saw the countess, for she
pleased him greatly.
 "Now guess my name, Lady Countess!" he said quickly, as though he
hardly expected her to do so.
 Then the countess guessed, "Fir, Spruce, Pine," because she thought
that for living in the forest he would certainly have the name of a tree.
 The dwarf had hardly heard this when he broke out laughing and
rejoicing until the entire forest resounded. "You have not guessed it!" he
said gleefully. "See if you can do any better tomorrow than you did today.
Otherwise you will become my wife!"
 The countess, sadder still, walked away from the fir tree with downcast
eyes. The dwarf stood there and smiled at her, taking pleasure in her
grief. She soon found her husband, and told him how she had guessed so
badly. They returned to their castle even sadder than they had left.
 The rest of the day passed too fast, although it was a sad one. Evening
was soon there, and night followed quickly. It was a sad and hopeless
night, and neither sleep nor dreams entered the count's room.
 When the first larks began to sing the next morning, the count and
countess were already up and concerned about their plight. They went to
the castle chapel to pray, and afterward went out into the dark green
forest, then further and deeper until they saw the old gray-bearded fir
tree in the distance. The count stayed behind and the countess proceeded
alone. Otherwise it was beautiful out there in the forest. The birds were
singing; the flowers were laughing and giving off their sweet scent; the
squirrels were standing up like little men. But the countess had a heavy
heart as never before, and with tears in her eyes she walked on until she
came to the fir tree. She had scarcely arrived there when the little man
of the forest walked up, dressed beautifully in blue and red. A
mischievous pleasure overcame him when he saw the countess, for she
pleased him greatly.
 "Now guess my name, Lady Countess!" he said quickly, and smiled.
 Then the countess guessed, "Oat, Buckwheat, Maize," for she thought
that he might have the name of a grain.
 The little elf had hardly heard this when he broke out laughing and
rejoicing until the entire forest resounded. "You have not guessed it!" he
said gleefully. "You must do better tomorrow, or you will belong to me, 
and tomorrow will be my wedding."
 The countess, sadder than ever before, walked away from the fir tree
with wet eyes. The dwarf stood there impishly smiling at her. She soon
found her husband, and told him how badly she had done. They returned to
their castle even more gloomily than they had left.
 The rest of the day passed under a shadow of sorrow. Evening was there
before they realized it, and the dark night followed quickly. It was again
a sad night, in which neither the count nor the countess closed their
eyes.
 As morning dawned, the count and countess were already up. They went to
the castle chapel and prayed fervently. Then they went out into the
beautiful green forest. It was still early, early in the morning, and many
of the birds were still lying asleep in their nests. Only the brooks were
rustling and murmuring, and the morning breezes were whispering through
the tree branches. Otherwise it was quiet -- as quiet as in a church.
 The count and countess walked until they saw the old gray-bearded fir
tree in the distance. There the count kissed his beautiful countess, and a
tear dropped onto his beard, for he did not know if he would ever see her
again. The countess, however was more composed today, and her heart was
not beating as quickly as it had done on the earlier occasions. She said
good-bye to her husband and walked toward the fir tree. All soul alone,
she stood there next to the old tree, but the dwarf was nowhere to be
seen. On either side there were wild rosebushes, and they made a beautiful
fence.
 She walked along the path and soon came to a beautiful little valley.
The most beautiful flowers were there, with vineyards and fig trees
growing on the hillsides. In the middle of the field stood a neat little
cottage. Its little windows glistened happily in the morning sunshine.
Blue smoke curled upward from the little chimney, and a song sounded from
within.
 The countess forgot her pain and grief when she saw the little valley
and the cottage. She crept up and, on tip-toes, looked inside the window
to see if it was as beautiful inside as it was outside. She saw a lovely
little kitchen, with things cooking and frying in pots and pans. The
little man of the forest was standing at the hearth, first tending to one
thing and then to another, at the same time singing with a smiling mouth:
 Boil my oats, bubble my cabbage; 
It is good that Lady Countess does not know 
That Purzinigele is my name. 
 The countess had heard enough. She crept away and hurried back to the
fir tree, so that the dwarf would not overtake her. Joyfully standing
there, she could almost not wait for the dwarf to arrive. It was not long
before the little man arrived. Today he was dressed even more beautifully
than before. His clothing was embroidered with red and gold, and it
glistened like a sunrise.
 "Guess now for the last time," said the little elf to the countess, as
though he had wanted to say, "This bird will not escape from my trap."
 The countess started to say "Pur," while carefully observing her
questioner.
 "Not right! You have two guesses left!" said the little man.
 "Goat," replied the countess.
 With that the dwarf blushed a little and seemed to pause and think.
Then he said, "Guess quickly! You have one more chance."
 "Purzinigele!" cried out the countess, filled with joy. Upon hearing
his name, the dwarf angrily rolled his fiery red eyes, clenched his fists
tightly, then grumbling disappeared into the thicket. The freed countess
hurried back to the place where the count was impatiently waiting for her.
There was such joy when the two found one another again. 
 To the joy of their people, the count and countess returned to their
castle. They lived there many, many years as the happiest couple that
anyone ever knew.
 And what became of Purzinigele?
 He was so angry that he ran away, and was never seen again.