Once a  bonga  haunted the house of a certain man and became such a 
nuisance that the man had him exorcised and safely pegged down to the 
ground; and they fenced in the place where the  bonga  lay with 
thorns and put a large stone on the top of him. Just at the place was a 
clump of "Kite's claws" bushes and one day when the berries on the bushes 
were ripe, a certain cowherd named Ramai went to pick them and when he 
came round to the stone which covered the  bonga  he stood on it to 
pick the fruit, and the  bonga  called out to him to get off the 
stone. Ramai looked about and seeing no one said "Who is that speaking?" 
and the voice said "I am buried under the stone; if you will take it off 
me I will give you whatever boon you ask."   
Ramai said that he was afraid that the  bonga  would eat him but the 
 bonga  swore to do him no harm, so he lifted up the stone and the 
 bonga  came out and thanking Ramai told him to ask a boon.   
Ramai asked for the power to see  bongas  and to understand the 
language of ants. "I will give you the power," said the  bonga , "but 
you must tell no one about it, not even your wife; if you do you will lose 
the power and in that case you must not blame me,"   
Then the  bonga  blew into his ear and he heard the speech of ants; 
and the  bonga  scratched the film of his eye balls with a thorn and 
he saw the  bongas : and there were crowds of them living in villages 
like men. In December when we thresh the rice the  bongas  carry off 
half of it; but Ramai could see them and would drive them away and so was 
able to save his rice.   
Once a young fellow of his own age was very ill; and his friends blew into 
his ears and partially brought him to his senses and he asked them to send 
for Ramai; so they called Ramai and he had just been milking his cows and 
came with the tethering rope in his hand; and when he entered the room he 
saw a  bonga  sitting on the sick man's chest and twisting his neck; 
so he flogged it with the rope till it ran away and he pursued it until it 
threw itself into a pool of water; and then the sick man recovered.   
But Ramai soon lost his useful power; one day as he was eating his dinner 
he dropped some grains of rice, and two ants fell to quarrelling over one 
grain, and Ramai heard them abusing each other and was so amused that he 
laughed out loud.   
His wife asked why he laughed, and he said at nothing in particular, but 
she insisted on knowing and he said that it was at some scandal he had 
heard in the village; but she would not believe him and worried him until 
he told her that it was at the quarrel of the ants. Then she made him tell 
her how he gained the power to understand what they said. But from that 
moment he lost the powers which the  bonga  had conferred on him.