You must know that once upon a time Reynard the Fox and Bruin the Bear
went into partnership and kept house together. Would you like to know the
reason? Well, Reynard knew that Bruin had a beehive full of honeycomb, and
that was what he wanted. But Bruin kept so close a guard upon his honey
that Master Reynard didn't know how to get away from him and get hold of
the honey. 
 So one day he said to Bruin, "Pardner, I have to go and be gossip --
that means godfather, you know -- to one of my old friends." 
 "Why, certainly," said Bruin. So off Reynard goes into the woods, and
after a time he crept back and uncovered the beehive and had such a feast
of honey.  
 Then he went back to Bruin, who asked him what name had been given to
the child. Reynard had forgotten all about the christening and could only
say, "Just-Begun." 
 "What a funny name," said Master Bruin. 
 A little while after, Reynard thought he would like another feast of
honey. So he told Bruin that he had to go to another christening. And off
he went. And when he came back and Bruin asked him what was the name given
to the child, Reynard said, "Half-Eaten." 
 The third time the same thing occurred, and this time the name given by
Reynard to the child that didn't exist was "All-Gone." You can guess
why. 
 A short time afterwards, Master Bruin thought he would like to eat up
some of his honey and asked Reynard to come and join him in the feast.
When they got to the beehive, Bruin was so surprised to find that there
was no honey left, and he turned round to Reynard and said, "Just-Begun,
Half-Eaten, All-Gone. So that is what you meant. You have eaten my
honey." 
 "Why no," said Reynard. "How could that be?" I have never stirred from
your side except when I went a-gossiping [serving as godfather], and then
I was far away from here. You must have eaten the honey yourself, perhaps
when you were asleep. At any rate we can easily tell. Let us lie down here
in the sunshine, and if either of us has eaten the honey, the sun will
soon sweat it out of us." 
 No sooner said than done, and the two lay side by side in the sunshine.
Soon Master Bruin commenced to doze, and Mr. Reynard took some honey from
the hive and smeared it round Bruin's snout. Then he woke him up and said,
"See, the honey is oozing out of your snout. You must have eaten it when
you were asleep."