A miner was always making fun of people who claimed that witches ride to
the Brocken on Walpurgis Night.   He often said, "If such an old creature ever crosses my path, I will throw her down.  What chance would such an old skeleton of a hag made up of nothing but skin and bones have against the likes of me?" 
"Now, now," an old neighbor woman who lived nearby would say.  "It
wouldn't be all that easy to throw down such a rider.  You should be
careful what you say!"  
"Tomfoolery!  Tomfoolery!" he said.  "I'd make her forget about riding."
To that the old woman said nothing. 
Walpurgis Night arrived.  There was shooting everywhere, as though the
enemy were attacking.  They were shooting off firecrackers, flintlocks,
rifles, and pistols.  On that evening everyone was firing his shooting
iron, and the louder the noise, the better everyone liked it. 
About nine o'clock the miner learned that something had gone wrong in the
shaft, and he was called upon to report for duty.  He got as far as Bremen
Hill when he was approached by a swarm of old hags flying through the air.
There was such commotion and uproar as though all the devils were on the
loose. 
One of the hags came down, turned the miner over, whether he wanted to or
not, and mounted him.  Then away they went through the air, following the
others to the Brocken.  He could barely breathe, and the old hag was so
heavy that she nearly broke his bones. 
She finally climbed off him, and he fell to the ground half dead.  The
other witches then surrounded him and danced around him, and the devil
himself was there with them.  Finally they picked him up and asked him if
he could remain silent, or if he would like to be boiled in oil.  Now no
one wants to be boiled in oil, so he said that he would never say anything
about the witches.  Then the devil said to him that he would be a child of
death if he ever uttered a single word.  And then the witches did
unspeakable things up there on the mountain. 
As midnight approached, they all gathered together, and one of the witches
again took our miner and mounted him, and they swarmed through the air
until they reached Bremen Hill near Claustal.  They released him at the
same spot where the witch had captured him.  He lay there for a few hours
recovering his strength; then he slowly crept homeward.  When he arrived
home, his wife was already up and was preparing to go into the woods for a
load of wood. 
"Wife," he said, "stay here.  I have had a bad night.  Go into the kitchen
and put a little wood into the stove.  I have been sweating, and I need to
change my clothes."  She did what he said.  He then told the stove what
had happened.  His wife overheard it all, but said nothing. 
A half hour later the old neighbor woman came by and said that it was a
good thing he had spoken to the stove and not to a person, or he would see
how things would go with him. 
And thus they knew that she was a witch.  The wife reported her, and the
wicked witch was burned to death, just as she deserved.