Once upon a time there was a miller who was poor, but who had a beautiful
daughter.  Now it happened that he got into a conversation with the king
and said to him: "I have a daughter who knows the art of turning straw
into gold." 
So the king immediately sent for the miller's daughter and ordered her to
turn a whole room full of straw into gold in one night.  And if she could
not do it, she would have to die.  She was locked in the room, and she sat
there and cried, because for her life she did not know how the straw would
turn into gold. 
Then suddenly a little man appeared before her, and said: "What will you
give me, if I turn this all into gold?"  She took off her necklace and
gave it to the little man, and he did what he had promised. 
The next morning the king found the room filled with gold, and his heart
became even more greedy.  He put the miller's daughter into an even larger
room filled with straw, and told her to turn it into gold.  The little man
came again.  She gave him a ring from her hand, and he turned it all into
gold. 
The third night the king had her locked in a third room, which was larger
than the first two, and entirely filled with straw.  "If you succeed this
time, I'll make you my wife," he said. 
Then the little man came and said, "I'll do it again, but you must promise
me the first child that you have with the king." 
In her distress she made the promise, and when the king saw that this
straw too had been turned into gold, he took the miller's daughter as his
wife. 
Soon thereafter the queen delivered a child.  Then the little man appeared
before her and demanded the child that had been promised him.  The queen
begged him to let her keep the child, offering him great riches in its
place. 
Finally he said, "I'll be back to get the child in three days.  But if by
then you know my name, you can keep the child.!" 
For two days the queen pondered what the little man's name might be, but
she could not think of anything, and became very sad.  On the third day
the king came home from a hunt and told her how, two days earlier, while
hunting deep in a dark forest, he had come upon a little house.  A comical
little man was there, jumping about as if on one leg, and crying out: 
 
Today I'll bake; tomorrow I'll brew. 
Then I'll fetch the queen's new child. 
It is good that no one knows 
Rumpelstiltskin is my name.
 
The queen was overjoyed to hear this. 
Then the dangerous little man arrived and asked: "Your majesty, what is my
name?" 
"Is your name Conrad?" 
"No." 
"Is your name Heinrich?" 
"No." 
"Then could your name be Rumpelstiltskin?" 
"The devil told you that!" shouted the little man. He ran away angrily,
and never came back.