One of the crassest examples of disregard for the aged is found in many
folk versions of the medieval jest "Unibos." (type 1535). An episode
frequently contained in this immensely popular tale describes how the
hero-trickster unremorsefully sacrifices his aging mother or grandmother.
Asbjørnsen's and Moe's " Big Peter and Little Peter ," summarized
below, is typical: 
 There were two adult brothers, both named Peter, one rich and
one poor. Wealthy Big Peter maliciously killed his poor brother's only
calf. Little Peter skinned the animal and then went from farm to farm
trying to sell the hide, but never with success. Overtaken by nightfall,
he gained lodging from a farmer's wife, who -- as Little Peter soon
discovered -- was "making merry" with the village priest while her husband
was away. The farmer unexpectedly returned, and the priest hid himself in
a chest. Armed with this information and his own quick wit, Little Peter
traded his calf skin for the chest and then extorted a small fortune from
the captive priest. 
 Back at home, Little Peter showed his rich brother the
unbelievable sum that he had received for the hide. Big Peter, filled with
greed and envy, immediately slaughtered all of his own cattle and rushed
to market with the hides, but instead of wealth, he found only ridicule
and scorn. He returned home, swearing to strike his brother dead that very
night. Little Peter heard the threat and saved himself by changing
sleeping places with his old mother. Thus, when Big Peter tried to carried
out his threat against his brother, he chopped off his old mother's head
instead. 
 Little Peter then hatched a plan to use the old woman's corpse
to further enrich himself. He put her body on a sledge, balanced the
severed head on her neck, and dragged her to market where he set her up as
an apple seller. Her first customer was a quick-tempered fellow who,
insulted because she would not respond to his questions, gave her a slap,
literally knocking her head off. Little Peter, by now quite good at
extortion, collected a substantial sum from the would-be apple buyer in
return for not reporting him to the authorities. 
 As if this were not enough, Little Peter returned home and
showed Big Peter the money their old mother's body had brought at the
market. The greedy brother, we are told, had an old stepmother, and he
killed her outright, taking the body to market hoping for a similarly high
price. But instead of money, he received only scorn and threats of arrest.
Other tricks follow, tricks that ultimately cost Big Peter and his wife
their lives and leave Little Peter a wealthy man. 
 Source:  East o' the Sun and West o' the Moon,  pp.
336-345. 
 This story of primitive justice offers no apologies or regrets for the
fact that the hero not only tricks the villain into killing innocent
people -- his wife and stepmother -- but also quite consciously sacrifices
his
own innocent old mother for his own well being. 
 Note: Another example of a type 1535 tale containing the
episode of the intentionally sacrificed old mother or grandmother (here
called a "great grandmother," presumably to emphasize her advanced age,
and hence her dispensability): "Der Schelm von Mols" ("The Trickster from
Mols" -- Denmark), Bødker,  Dänische Volksmärchen,
 no. 23. In some tales of this type the grandmother's murder is
repressed. The storyteller lets her die of natural causes or accidentally,
but the hero still uses her corpse to extort money from others. Examples:
" Little 
Claus and Big Claus ," Andersen,  Complete Fairy Tales and
Stories,  no. 2; "Master Sly" (Luxemburg), Bødker, Hole, and
D'Aronco,  European Folk Tales  , pp. 99-102. In still other
versions, the trickster hero uses his wife in a similar fashion. For
example, in "The Peasant Pewit," (Ranke,  Folktales of Germany,  no.
51) the little peasant, threatened by enemies, exchanges clothing with his
wife, thus tricking them into killing her instead of
him.