The most formidable attribute of the elves, was the practice of carrying 
away and exchanging children, and that of stealing human souls from their 
bodies.  "A persuasion prevails among the ignorant," says the author of a 
MS. history of Moray, that "in a consumptive disease, the fairies steal 
away the soul, and put the soul of a fairy in the room of it."
 
This belief prevails chiefly along the eastern coast of Scotland, where a 
practice, apparently of druidical origin, is used to avert the danger.  
In the increase of the March moon, withes of oak and ivy are cut, and 
twisted into wreaths or circles, which they preserve till next March.  
After that period, when persons are consumptive, or children hectic, they 
cause them to pass thrice through these circles.  In other cases the cure 
was more rough, and at least as dangerous as the disease, as will appear 
from the following extract:--
  
There is one thing remarkable in this parish of Suddie, (in 
Isverness-shire,) which I think proper to mention.  There is a small hill 
N.W. from the church commonly called Therdy Hill, or Hill of Therdie, as 
some term it; on the top of which there is a well, which I had the 
curiosity to view, because of the several reports concerning it.  When 
children happen to be sick, and languish long in their malady, so that 
they almost turn skeletons, the common people imagine they are taken away 
(at least the substance) by spirits, called Fairies, and the shadow left 
with them; so, at a particular season in summer, they leave them all 
night themselves, watching at a distance, near this well, and this they 
imagine will either  end or mend them;  they say many more do 
recover than do not.
 
Yea, an honest tenant who lives hard by it, and whom I had the curiosity 
to discourse about it, told me it has recovered some, who were about 
eight or nine years of age, and to his certain knowledge, they bring 
adult persons to it; for, as he was passing one dark night, he heard 
groanings, and, coming to the well, he found a man, who had been long 
sick, wrapped in a plaid, so that he could scarcely move, a stake being 
fixed in the earth, with a rope, or tedder, that was about the plaid; he 
had no sooner inquired what he was, but he conjured him to loose him, and 
out of sympathy he was pleased to slacken that wherein he was, as I may 
so speak, swaddled; but, if I right remember, he signified, he did not 
recover.-- Account of the Parish of Suddie,  apud Macfarlane's 
 MSS. 
 
According to the earlier doctrine, concerning the original corruption of 
human nature, the power of demons over infants had been long reckoned 
considerable, in the period intervening between birth and baptism.  
During this period, therefore, children were believed to be particularly 
liable to abstraction by the fairies, and mothers chiefly dreaded the 
substitution of changelings in the place of their own offspring.  Various 
monstrous charms existed in Scotland, for procuring the restoration of a 
child which had been thus stolen; but the most efficacious of them was 
supposed to be, the roasting of the supposititious child upon the live 
embers, when it was believed it would vanish, and the true child appear 
in the place, whence it had been originally abstracted.  [Note 1]
 
It may be questioned if this experiment could now be made without the 
animadversion of the law.  Even that which is prescribed in the following 
legend is rather too hazardous for modern use.
  
A certain woman having put out her child to nurse in the country, found, 
when she came to take it home, that its form was so much altered that she 
scarce knew it; nevertheless, not knowing what time might do, took it 
home for her own.  But when, after some years, it could neither speak nor 
go, the poor woman was fain to carry it, with much trouble, in her arms; 
and one day, a poor man coming to the door, "God bless you, mistress," 
said he, "and your poor child; be pleased to bestow something on a poor man."
 
"Ah! this child," replied she, "is the cause of all my sorrow," and 
related what had happened, adding, moreover, that she thought it changed, 
and none of her child.  The old man, whom years had rendered more prudent 
in such matters, told her, to find out the truth, she should make a clear 
fire, sweep the hearth very clean, and place the child fast in his chair, 
that he might not fall, before it, and break a dozen eggs, and place the 
four-and-twenty half-shells before it; then go out, and listen at the 
door: for, if the child spoke, it was certainly a changeling; and then 
she should carry it out, and leave it on the dunghill to cry, and not to 
pity it, till she heard its voice no more.  
 
The woman, having done all things according to these words, heard the 
child say, "Seven years old was I before I came to the nurse, and four 
years have I lived since, and never saw so many milk pans before."  So 
the woman took it up, and left it upon the dunghill to cry, and not to be 
pitied, till at last she thought the voice went up into the air; and 
coming, found there her own natural and well-favored child.--Grose's 
 Provincial Glossary,  quoted from "A Pleasant Treatise on Witchcraft.."