An even happier conclusion (this time for all parties concerned) is given
to us
by Selma Lagerlöf, who won the Nobel Prize for literature in 1909, in
her
children's book "The Changeling."  {footnote
27}  
This artful fairy tale weaves the primitive motifs of troll-lore into a
humane
and satisfying fantasy story.    
True to tradition, the author describes the kidnapping of a mortal child
by an
old troll woman, who leaves her own misshapen baby in its place.
Following the
pattern of countless folk legends, the parents are told to beat the
changeling
child with a heavy cane if they want to recover their own baby.  The
father is
only too willing to abuse the ugly troll child, but the mother's maternal
instincts cause her to intercede on the changeling's behalf.  Several
episodes
are described in which the father attempts to follow the community's
expectations by cruelly punishing or even killing the unwanted child, but
each
time the mother selflessly protects the troll baby.    
Her kindness and perseverance are rewarded in the end, and the two
children are
restored to their original parents.  Only then do we learn that during his
absence the human child had lived in an unseen parallel world to that of
his
parents.  Every act of cruelty or of kindness visited upon the troll child
by
his human guardians had been duplicated upon him by his troll stepmother.
It
was a mother's kindness and humanity rather than the expected abuse and
neglect
that rescued her child.  Lagerlöf thus cloaks an ancient and cruel
superstition in a modern and humane dress.  
 Conclusion  
The advance of science during the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries
slowly but
surely eroded the popular belief that malformed and retarded children
likely
were not human at all, but rather the offspring of some demonic being,
offspring
that could be neglected, abused, and even put to death with no moral
compunctions.  As these theological explanations for retardation gave way
to
medical explanations, community values and personal attitudes changed to
such an
extent that the very word "changeling," its synonym "killcrop," and their
equivalents in other languages now have become historical curiosities,
survivals
of beliefs and practices that helped our northern European forebears --
for good
or for bad -- face the problems of life and death when confronted with
mentally
or physically defective children.