Once upon a time there lived a man and a woman who had no children, despite having been married for fifteen years. Twenty times a day wife and husband cried out: "Lord, give us a son, nothing but a son, even if he is only as big as a boot."  
God finally heard their request, and after fifteen years and nine months gave them a son who was two spans tall and did not grow any taller. For this reason his parents named him Shortboot.  
When he was old enough to work, nobody wanted to take him, the dwarf. However, he was more clever and more intelligent than the others.  
At last he found work as a cowherd for an evil and miserly farmer. Bad bread, bad soup, a bed of straw, many beatings, and sparse wages, that is what our thumbling got.  
But the dwarf was in good spirits and thought to himself: "Patience. After rain comes sunshine."  
One day he was tending his cows and lying at a pasture on the banks of the River Gers. On the opposite bank he saw a woman who was scarcely a span tall, black as the night, and very old.  
"Cowherd," she cried, "help me to the other bank of the river."   
"Gladly, dear lady."  
He took off his clothes. It was just after harvest time, so the water was so low that it came only up to his waist.  
"Dear woman, now you are on this side."  
"Thank you, dear cowherd. Your service shall be repaid to you. Here you have a flute that you should never part with. When you play it, animals and people who hear you will be forced to dance until you stop playing."  
"Thank you, dear woman."  
The old woman disappeared.  
Shortboot began to play the flute. The oxen, cows, and calves immediately began to dance and did not stop until he stopped playing.  
Soon after, near a hedge of thorns, the Justic of the Peace came by. He was an exceedingly angry and evil man.  
Shortboot took off his cap: "Hello, Your Honor." 
But he did not answer, nor did he touch his hat.  
"Your Honor, I greeted you properly, can't you say thank you?"  
He only raised his stick.  
Then Shortboot played his flute, and immediately the Justice of the Peace danced into the thorn hedge, where he tore his clothes and scratched his skin. He danced until the dwarf stopped playing.  
Shortboot brought his cattle home. His master and his family had a feast that day. There was bread soup, roast goose and turkey, cheese, and wine.  
"Dear sir, may I have some of that."  
"Be gone, you rascal. Moldy bread crusts are too good for you. Be gone,  or there will be blows."  
Shortboot played his flute, and the farmer and his family immediately began to dance. They danced around the benches and the overturned chairs, on plates, bowls, and broken wine bottles, which cut into them bloodily. They danced and danced until he stopped playing. 
After this Shortboot returned to his parents, but the Justice of the Peace and the farmer brought charges against him in court.  
Three days later the cowherd was sentenced to death by hanging. The red-robed judges, the priest, the hangman and his helpers led him to the gallows. He nearly burst with laughter when he saw the Justice of the Peace and the farmer among the people marching with them.  
The hangman put the rope around his neck, but he began to play the flute, and everyone -- the judge, the priest, the hangman and his helpers,  and the people -- danced. They danced up to the gallows, and their legs and arms were in constant danger of being broken. They danced until he stopped playing.  
"Well, my dear people, do you still want to hang me?"  
"No, Shortboot, be calm. Nothing will happen to you."  
"My dear people, that's not enough for me. The Justice of the Peace and the farmer must be hanged without mercy."  
"Shortboot, that's not possible!"  
Shortboot played his flute again, and everyone immediately began to dance. They danced up to the gallows, and their legs and arms were in constant danger of being broken. They danced until he stopped playing.  
"My dear people, I want the justice of the peace and the farmer to be hanged without mercy. Is this still not possible?"  
"As you wish, Shortboot. Executioner, perform your duties."  
The executioner and his helpers hanged the magistrate and the farmer.  
"And now, dear people, you must give me a thousand pieces of gold as compensation."  
"Shortboot, that's not possible!"  
But Shortboot played the flute again, and everyone immediately began to dance. They danced up onto the gallows and back down again. Their arms and legs were in constant danger of being broken. They danced until he stopped playing.  
"My dear people, you must give me a thousand pieces of gold as compensation for the injustice that I have suffered. Is this still not possible?"  
"We will pay, Shortboot, but we don't have the money here."  
"Then have it fetched, otherwise I'll play the flute again."  
They brought the money, and Shortboot returned to his parents laden with gold. He lived happily and contentedly for many years afterward.  
(Gascony)