Once upon a time, in a great jungle, there lived a great lion. He was 
rajah of all the country round; and every day he used to 
leave his den, in the deepest shadow of the rocks, and roar with a loud, 
angry voice. And when he roared, the other animals in 
the jungle, who were all his subjects, got very much frightened, and ran 
here and there. And Singh Rajah [Lion King] would 
pounce upon them, and kill them, and gobble them up for his dinner.  
 This went on for a long, long time, until, at last, there were no 
living creatures left in the jungle but two little jackals, a rajah 
jackal and a ranee jackal, husband and wife.  
 A very hard time of it the poor little jackals had, running this way 
and that to escape the terrible Singh Rajah. And every day 
the little ranee jackal would say to her husband, "I am afraid he will 
catch us today. Do you hear how he is roaring? Oh dear, oh 
dear!"  
 And he would answer her, "Never fear. I will take care of you. Let us 
run on a mile or two. Come, come, -- quick, quick, 
quick!"  
 And they would both run away as fast as they could.  
 After some time spent in this way, they found, however, one fine day, 
that the lion was so close upon them that they could 
not escape.  
 Then the little ranee jackal said, "Husband, husband! I feel very 
frightened. The Singh Rajah is so angry he will certainly kill 
us at once. What can we do?"  
 But he answered, "Cheer up. We can save ourselves yet. Come, and I'll 
show you how we may manage it."  
 So what did these cunning little jackals do, but they went to the great 
lion's den; and when he saw them coming, he began to 
roar and shake his mane, and he said, "You little wretches, come and be 
eaten at once! I have had no dinner for three whole 
days, and all that time I have been running over hill and dale to find 
you. Ro-a-ar! Ro-a-ar! Come and be eaten, I say!"  
 And he lashed his tail and gnashed his teeth, and looked very terrible 
indeed.  
 Then the jackal rajah, creeping quite close up to him, said, "O great 
Singh Rajah, we all know you are our master, and we 
would have come at your bidding long ago; but indeed, sir, there is a much 
bigger rajah even than you in this jungle, and he tried 
to catch hold of us and eat us up, and frightened us so much that we were 
obliged to run away."  
 "What do you mean?" growled Singh Rajah. "There is no king in this 
jungle but me!"  
 "Ah, sire," answered the jackal, "in truth one would think so, for you 
are very dreadful. Your very voice is death. But it is as 
we say, for we, with our own eyes, have seen one with whom you could not 
compete; whose equal you can no more be than we 
are yours; whose face is as flaming fire, his step as thunder, and his 
power supreme."  
 "It is impossible!" interrupted the old lion. "But show me this rajah 
of whom you speak so much, that I may destroy him 
instantly!"  
 Then the little jackals ran on before him until they reached a great 
well, and, pointing down to his own reflection in the water, 
they said, "See, sire, there lives the terrible king of whom we spoke." 
 
 When Singh Rajah looked down the well he became very angry, for he 
thought he saw another lion there. He roared and 
shook his great mane, and the shadow lion shook his, and looked terribly 
defiant. At last, beside himself with rage at the 
insolence of his opponent, Singh Rajah sprang down to kill him at once, 
but no other lion was there -- only the treacherous 
reflection.  
 And the sides of the well were so steep that he could not get out 
again, to punish the two jackals, who peeped over the top. 
After struggling for some time in the deep water, he sank to rise no more. 
 
 And the little jackals threw stones down upon him from above, and 
danced round and round the well, singing, "Ao! Ao! 
Ao! Ao! The king of the forest is dead, is dead. We have killed the great 
lion who would have killed us! Ao! Ao! Ao! Ao! 
Ring-a-ting -- ding-a-ting! Ring-a-ting -- ding-a-ting! Ao! Ao! Ao!"