From Shakespeare's  As You Like It  (act 2, scene 7): 
 All the world's a stage, 
And all the men and women merely players: 
They have their exits and their entrances; 
And one man in his time plays many parts, 
His acts being seven ages. At first the infant, 
Mewling and puking in the nurse's arms. 
Then the whining school-boy, with his satchel 
And shining morning face, creeping like snail 
Unwillingly to school. And then the lover, 
Sighing like furnace, with a woeful ballad 
Made to his mistress' eyebrow. Then a soldier, 
Full of strange oaths, and bearded like the pard, 
Jealous in honor, sudden and quick in quarrel, 
Seeking the bubble reputation 
Even in the cannon's mouth. And then the justice, 
In fair round belly with good capon lined, 
With eyes severe and beard of formal cut, 
Full of wise saws and modern instances; 
And so he plays his part. The sixth age shifts 
Into the lean and slipper'd pantaloon, 
With spectacles on nose and pouch on side, 
His youthful hose, well saved, a world too wide 
For his shrunk shank; and his big manly voice, 
Turning again toward childish treble, pipes 
And whistles in his sound. Last scene of all, 
That ends this strange eventful history, 
Is second childishness and mere oblivion, 
Sans teeth, sans eyes, sans taste, sans every thing. 
 The Grimms' "The Duration of Life," a tale collected from a peasant in
his field in 1840, presents the same pessimistic outcome, but adds a
playful teleological explanation: 
 When God created the world he gave the ass, the dog, the
monkey, and man each a life-span of thirty years. The ass, knowing that
his was to be a hard existence, asked for a shorter life. God had mercy
and took away eighteen years. The dog and the monkey similarly thought
their prescribed lives too long, and God reduced them respectively by
twelve and ten years. Man, however, considered the thirty years assigned
to him to be too brief, and he petitioned for a longer life. Accordingly,
God gave him the years not wanted by the ass, the dog, and the
monkey. 
 Thus man lives seventy years. The first thirty are his human
years, and they quickly disappear. Here he is healthy and happy; he works
with pleasure, and enjoys his existence. The ass's eighteen years follow.
Here one burden after the other is laid on him; he carries the grain that
feeds others, and his faithful service is rewarded with kicks and blows.
Then come the dog's twelve years, and he lies in the corner growling, no
longer having teeth with which to bite. And when this time is past, the
monkey's ten years conclude. Now man is weak headed and foolish; he does
silly things and becomes a laughingstock for children. 
 Source: Retold from " The Duration of Life ," Grimm, no. 176,
type 173 (also categorized as type 828). Other versions include: "Man's
Years," Daly,  Aesop without Morals,  no. 105; "The Span of Man's
Life," Noy,  Folktales of Israel,  no. 26.
 
For more tales of this type see  Stages of Life: Folktales of Type 173 .