There lived not far from Gordonsville [Virginia] a widow who was noted for 
her niggardliness and extreme parsimony; so stingy and mean was she that a 
placard was nailed on her gate, under her own direction, with the 
inscription: "No soldier fed or housed here."   
The best foragers of the brigade met their match in the old woman, and 
returned defeated from the field; at last she was left in undisturbed 
possession of the place, and no hungry soldiers were ever fed at her 
table.   
But one day a famished-looking, lank, angular specimen of the genus Reb 
appeared at her farmhouse and knocked at her door. When the animated 
figure of War and Famine combined stalked into her yard, the old lady was 
speechless with wrath; she opened the door, prepared for immediate 
hostilities, but the sad-faced defender of the soil was asking in a humble 
voice and with a deprecatory manner, "Please, marm, lend me your iron 
pot."   
"Man, I have no iron pot for you!" This was snappily jerked out, while an 
evident determination was shown to shut the door in his face.   
"Please, marm, I won't hurt it."   
"You do not suppose," she began in angry tones, "you do not for one moment 
suppose I am going to lend you my pot to carry to camp, do you? If I were 
fool enough, I would never see it again, so don't think that you are going 
to get it. Go over there to Mrs. Hanger's, she will lend you hers; one 
thing is certain,  I won't! "   
"Marm," he still pleaded, "I will bring your pot back, hope I may die if I 
don't! If you don't believe me I won't take it out of the yard but will 
kindle a fire just here; please, marm."   
"What do you want with it?" asked the old woman, who was beginning to feel 
that she would be none the worse in pocket by granting the request, but 
might, on the contrary, be gainer in some way.   
"I want to bile some stone soup," answered the soldier, looking pitifully 
at his questioner.   
"Stone soup! What's stone soup?" and the old lady's curiosity began to 
rise. "How do you make it, and what for?"   
"Marm," replied the mournful infantryman, "ever since the war began the 
rations have become scarcer and scarcer, until now they have stopped 
entirely and we-uns have to live on stone soup to keep from starving."   
"Stone soup," mused the woman, "I never heard of it before, must be 
something new; one of these newfangled things; cheap, too; well, how do 
you say you make it ?"   
"Please, marm, you get a pot with some water and I will show you; we biles 
the stone."   
The ancient dame trotted off full of wonder and inquisitiveness to get the 
article. Yes, it was worth knowing the recipe; fully worth the use of the 
pot, besides she would make her dinner off that soup and save that much! 
So, very much mollified, she returned and found the soldier had already 
kindled his fire; placing the kettle over it he waited for the water to 
boil, in the meanwhile selecting a rock about the size of his head, which 
he washed clean and put in the pot; then he said to the old woman, who had 
been peering into the pot through her spectacles, "Marm, please give me a 
leetle piece of bacon about the size of your hand to give the soup a 
relish."   
The old lady trotted off and got it for him; another five minutes passed. 
  
"Is it done?" she inquired.   
"It's mos' done, but please, marm, give me half a head o' cabbage just to 
make it taste right."   
Without a word the cabbage was brought; and ten minutes slipped away.   
"Is it not done by this time?" again she asked.   
"Mos' done," with a brightening look, and then as if a new idea had just 
occurred to him, "Please, marm, can't you give me a half a dozen potatoes 
just to give it a nice flavor like."   
"All right," answered the widow, who by this time had become deeply 
absorbed in the operation. The potatoes followed the meat and cabbage, and 
another ten minutes followed that.   
"Isn't it done yet? 'Pears to me that it's a long time cooking," she said, 
getting somewhat impatient.   
"Mos' done, marm, mos' done," insinuatingly.   
"Jest get me a small handful of flour, a little pepper and some 
termartusses and it will be all right then."   
The things were duly added from the widow's stores and bubbled in the pot 
a while; then the soup was pronounced done and lifted from the fire. The 
soldier pulled out his knife with spoon attachment and commenced to eat; 
he lost no time between mouthfuls; the economical widow hastened in, and 
returned with a plate, which she filled; on tasting the first spoonful she 
exclaimed, "Why, man, this is nothing but common meat and vegetable soup!" 
  
"So it is, marm," responded the soldier after a while, for there was not a 
minute to spare for talking; "so it is, marm, but we call it stone soup." 
  
The old lady carried the pot back into the house, but not before the man 
had emptied it, learning for the first time how a soldier's ingenuity 
could compass anything and outwit even herself. She said, "They have Old 
Nick on their side," and tradition adds, she even kept that stone and 
swore by it.