Once upon a time, there lived a man and his wife who had only one son. When the son was born, his father said he would have to get an honest man to stand for the child. He set out on his journey early in the morning. When he went some distance he met a man who asked him where was he going.  
"I am going to get an honest man to stand for my child," said he.  
"Will I do?" said the man.  
"Who are you?" he inquired.  
"I am God," said the man.  
"Well you won't do, because you are too good to some people, and bad to others."  
So he went another bit of the way, and he met another man, who asked him where was he going.  
"I am going in search of an honest man to stand for my child," he said.  
"Maybe I'd do," said the man.  
"Who are you," he said.  
"I am the devil," the man said.  
"God himself is fairer than you," he said and away he went. He met another man who asked him where was he going.  
"I am going in search of an honest man to stand for my child, who is after being born," he said.  
"Will I do?" asked the man.  
"Who are you?" he asked. 
"I am Death," he said.  
"Well you are a fair man anyway because you bring the poor along with you as well as the rich."  
He said he would stand for the child, but that when the child would come to a certain age he would have to go to College in order to be a doctor.  
When he came to be a doctor he met Death one day. He said to the doctor that when ever he went attending the sick if he saw him at the head of the person's bed they would not be cured, but if he saw him at the foot of the bed the person would be cured.  
One day he heard of a great princess being sick and there was a great reward for what ever doctor would cure her. The doctor went to the palace of the princess and saw her there ready to die. Death was at her head, so he saw that she could not be cured.  
Then he changed her in the bed, by putting her feet where her head was and then she was cured. He got his money, but he met Death at the gate. Death said to him that he would have to die instead of the princess. The doctor said he would die, but to give him time to say a few certain prayers, so death said he would.  
"Alright," he said, "you will wait a long time before I will say them."  
It happened one night that the young doctor was going along the road when he found an old man lying on the side of the road moaning. He went to the old man and asked him what was wrong with him. The old man told him that he had some certain prayers to say, and he was not able to say them, so the young doctor took pity on him and said them for him.  
The prayers that he said were the same ones that Death gave him to say, so as soon as he had the last of them said, the old man stood up and said to the young doctor, "I am Death, so now you must die."  
 
 
Collector: Beatrice Casey, female.  
Informant: Mattie Casey, male, age 52.