The' was wonst an owld woman what had only but one son, an' his name was Jack. An' she kept him in bed till he was twenty-one years of age. Whatsumever, about a month afoare, she sent for the tailor, an' had him measured for a suit o' clothes.  
On the day when he is twenty-one his owld mother calls Jack early, an' tells him he is to get up, which he does. He finds a new suit o' clothes put ready for him, so he dresses hisself, an' a'ter when he has dressed he has a good look at hisself in the glass. He looks fine, he thinks. Of course he'd never had a suit o' clothes on in his life afoare. Then he goes downstairs, an' has his breakfast wid his owld mother. An' when he thinks of hisself sat up to the table wid his mother he can't help but laugh: it seems so funny to him what has never been out 'n bed afoare.  
Now a'ter when they'd finished breakfast his owld mother says to him: "Jack," she says, "I wants you now to go to the farm over there, an' bring me some straw for the pig to lie on. "The farmer," she says, "has gi'ed me leave to get some."  
"Right," says Jack. "I'll go, mother. But, mother," he axes, "what rope shall I take?"  
"Oh! I got only but one rope," she tells him.  
"Well, where is it?" he axes.  
"Hanging up in the kitchen," she says.  
So Jack goes an' gets the rope -- a t'emendous big thick rope it was, as thick as my arm -- an' then off he sets to the farm.  
Whatever to you, on the road he meets wid the farmer hisself.  
"Hello! my lad, " says the farmer. "Where may you be come from?"  
 "Out 'n bed," Jack tells him. "My mother," he says, "has kept me in bed for twenty-one years, an' I'm only just now got up. An' being as she has done so much for me," he says, "I wants to be a help to her now, so I was just a-going," he says, "to fatch her that straw for the pig, what you gi'ed her the promise on."  
"Very good, my lad," says the farmer, "you can go an' get as much as ever you can carry."  
Jack thanks him, an' bids him good morning, an' goes on now till he comes to the stackyard. He takes the rope, an' he throws it round the whole 'n one stack -- an' it wa'n't the littlest neither -- an' he lifts an' he pulls till he gets the stack fair an' square onto his back. Then he goes off home wid it, an' when he gets it there he sets it down in the front garden.  
"There, mother." he says, "that'll last you a long while, I'll lay it will."  
An' a'ter when he has done this he goes off into the back garden to dig her up a few 'tatoes.  
So whatever to you, the farmer soon comes to the owld woman's cottage to see what's gotten his stack, an' there he finds it in front 'n the house in the front garden.  
"Morning, missis," he says. "Is that son o' yours at home?"  
"Yes," she tells him. "He's in the back garden digging up a few 'tatoes for the dinner."  
"I'll just go an' have a word wid him," says the farmer.  
"Well aye," she says, "do."  
So the farmer goes through into the back garden.  
"Hello! young fellow," he says. "What the hangment do you mean by taking the whole 'n one o' my stacks?"  
"Well," says Jack, "you said as I was to have as much straw as ever I could carry, didn't you? That's all I've ta'en, master. An' besides," he says, "it'll be a good thing for my poor owld mother, for it'll last her a long time."  
"I da'say it will," says the farmer. "But never mind, we'll say no moare about it."  
Now the farmer gets a-gate talking wid Jack, an' a'ter a bit he axes him what work he can do  
"Oh, annythink," says Jack, "as I knows how to."  
"An' you wants work, Jack?" he axes.  
"Yes," says Jack, an' he was very pleased at the thoughts o' getting a job. "I'd be glad of anny work," he says, "for now I wants to keep my owld mother, being as she has kept me for twenty-one years."  
"Do you think you could manage to carry water?" the farmer axes him.  
"Yes," says Jack, "I could do that first class."  
"Very well then, my lad," says the farmer. "Come to my house tomorrow morning early: it's washing day."  
"Right you are," says Jack. "I'll be there."  
Next morning, when Jack goes, the farmer gi'es him two buckets an' tells him to go across the field -- a very big field it was -- to the well, an' fatch enough water to fill the boiler for washing. Away Jack goes, an' he fatches two bucketfuls, an' pours 'em into the boiler, an' then he fatches two moare, an' two moare agen; an' he goes on this way, aye for three or four hours, an' yet he can't see the boiler getting not the leastest little bit fuller.  
"Dang it," he says. "I will fill it."  
So whatever should he do now, but the' is a big barrel -- a t'emendous big cask -- stood close by to the boiler; well, he gets this, an' puts it onto his back, an' then off he goes to the well agen wid this big barrel on his back, an' the two buckets in his hands. He fills this barrel, an' the two buckets, an' brings the three 'n they, an' empties the lot into the boiler. He does this two or three times moare, an' then the farmer comes to see how he's getting on.  
"Stop, Jack," he says. "That 'll do. You've fatched too much."  
Whatsumever to you, as Jack was going home that night from the farmer's who should he meet wid but a sowldier.  
"Hello! my fine fellow," the sowldier calls out to him. "Are you looking for work?"  
"Yes," Jack tells him. "My mother," he says, ' has kept me in bed for twenty-one years, an' now I wants to earn a bit o' money to keep her."  
"Well, what can you do?" the sowldier axes him.  
"Oh! annythink," says Jack, "as I knows how to."  
"Will you 'list?" says the sowldier.  
"Yes," says Jack. So Jack 'lists, an' they puts him in a cavalry rigiment.  
Now it wa'n't above a month a'ter Jack had 'listed but what a big war breaks out, an' of course he is sent to the front. Soon he's right in the thick 'n it. He shoots down scoares an' scoares 'n the enemy till his ammonition is all used up, an' then he lays about him wid the butt end 'n his rifle, an' kills scoares and scoares more that way.  
At last poor Jack's horse was shot down from under him. But that wa'n't the end -- oh! no. What does he do but catch howld 'n his horse by the tail, an' walk right into the middle 'n the enemy, swinging it round an' round his head, an' i' that way he wiped out 'most all the lot 'n the tother side.  
Now a'ter when the war is over, an' Jack comes back home agen, the king gi'es him his own da'ghter for winning the battle for him. So Jack gets married to her, an' they goes to live in a grand palace, an' they lives happy together ever a'ter.