Stupid Gretel lived with her husband in a lonely little house just 
outside the village, and she did not deal with people very 
much. One day a hungry fellow came to her while her husband was in the 
field, and he asked her to give him something to 
eat, for he had gone hungry the entire day. He would be satisfied even if 
it were only a piece of meat, or half of one. 
 Now her husband had slaughtered a pig only yesterday, so she went 
inside and brought back half of the pig. 
 Yes, he could manage that, said the hungry man, and he loaded the 
burden onto his shoulders and went on his 
way. 
 When Gretel's husband came home and learned what she had done, he 
ruffled his hair and said, "Gretel, my Gretel, 
when will you ever learn? Why didn't you just cut him a slice?" 
 "Oh, dear husband," said Gretel, "you know that I cannot shed blood. 
How would I have been able to cut a slice out of 
that poor man?" 
 The husband said, "Gretel, my Gretel, you will never learn! I am going 
to town now, and if I can find a woman there 
who is more stupid than you, then I'll spare your life, otherwise it will 
cost you your neck." 
 So he went to town. The market had just begun, and as he, lost in his 
thoughts, approached an egg woman, he stumbled 
into her basket, breaking the eggs until the ground looked like it was 
plastered with pancakes made without lard. 
 "Hey!" the egg woman jumped up shouting, "What kind of crazy man is 
that?" 
 "Now, now," cried the man. "Clear out your mouth and speak differently. 
Who can see a miserable egg peddler if he has just fallen from heaven?" 
 "Oh my dear God, you have come from heaven?" cried the woman. "How 
could I have known that? Tell me, have you 
seen my blessed husband Christian? God willing, he will have been there 
one year this Easter." 
 "I hope to say I have seen him," answered the man. "Only yesterday we 
ate together. He is the best companion I have in 
all of heaven, and when I return, he is the first person I will seek out. 
But he's not doing too well polishing the stars. He has 
to clean the stars every night, and having only one shirt for Sundays and 
workdays alike is no fun." 
 "Oh my dear God," cried the woman. "Is he doing so poorly, my dear 
Christian? In that case may God bless you if you 
will take him the piece of cloth that I bought for him before he died. It 
is as good as new." 
 "If it's not too heavy, I will give it a try," said the man, and went 
with the woman to her house. She gave him the cloth, 
and she wouldn't stop until she had given him a basket full of eggs for 
her Christian as well.  
 Then he set off toward home. As he approached home, Gretel became 
frightened, for she could only think that her last 
hour had struck. But her husband waved to her from afar and shouted, 
"Gretel, my Gretel, you are not yet the most stupid woman!" 
 Then he told her about his dealings with the egg woman. He was very 
pleased with the new cloth and the gift of the 
eggs. And Gretel too was much relieved that this time, at least, it had 
not cost her her neck.