The numbers in parentheses refer to the numbered items in the original text by Jacob Grimm.  
 
 If an unmarried woman pours molten lead into cold water on Christmas Eve, the lead will take the shape of her future husband's workday tools. (97)  
 Unmarried women who desire husbands should, on the night before Saint Andrew's day, naked, call on this saint, and their loved ones will appear to them in their sleep. (100)  
 If a girl wishes to know what kind of hair her future loved one has, on Christmas Eve she should reach backwards out the door, and she shall hold the hair in her hand. (102)  
 To learn if she shall marry within the next year, a virgin should knock on the chicken coop on Christmas Eve or at midnight. If a rooster cackles she will, if a hen cackles she will not. (105)  
 To discover if her future lover will be upright or crooked, a girl must stand against a cord or a stack of wood on Christmas Eve and pull a log out backwards; her lover will be like the log. (109)  
 To discover the name of her future husband, a girl must take a strand of the yarn first spun one morning, then stretch it across the house door. The first man to walk by will have the same name as her future husband. (110)  
 Christmas Eve between 11 and 12 o'clock all single girls wake up. To learn whether or not they will marry in the next year, they take off all their clothes, stick their heads into the kitchen kettle and watch the bubbling water. (506)  
 If, between eleven and twelve o'clock on Saint Andrew's Eve, a girl melts lead in a spoon then pours it through a key with a cross-shaped cut in its beard, the lead will take the shape of her future husband's workday tools. (579)  
 On Saint Andrew's Eve unmarried girls form a circle around a goose.  The first girl that the goose turns toward will be the next one to marry. (847)  
 On Saint John's Eve between eleven and twelve o'clock the unmarried girls pick nine kinds of blossoms, and these must include clover, cranesbill, and rue. These blossoms are woven into a wreath. The thread that holds it together must be spun in that same hour. When the wreath is finished, one of the girls throws it backwards against a tree. However many times it is thrown without hanging to the tree is how many years it will be before she marries. This must be done without anyone saying a word. (848)  
 Some girls take an inherited key and a ball of yarn, then wind the yarn onto the key, as much as will fit, with about one or two yards hanging loose. This they hang out of the window, moving it back and forth from side to side while saying, "Listen! Listen!"  The direction that they hear a voice coming from tells them where they will marry and make their future home. (954) 
 The day before Christmas Eve a girl can cut nine kinds of wood, then at midnight make a fire with it in the main room. Then she will take off all her clothes and throw her shifts out of the door while saying, "I'm sitting here bare naked, waiting for my beloved to come and throw my shift in to me." Her beloved will come and throw the shift in to her, and she will recognize his face. (955)  
 Other girls take four onions and place one in each corner of the main room, giving each onion the name of a young man. They leave the onions in place from Christmas until Three Kings Day.  Whoever's onion has sprouted, he will be the girl's husband. If none of the onions have sprouted, there will be no wedding. (956)  
 A few days before Christmas Eve some girls purchase a penny's worth of white bread. They cut off a piece of the crust and tie it under their right arm and leave it there during the daytime. Upon going to bed on Christmas Eve they say, "I am lying here with bread; let my beloved come and eat with me!" If the following morning some of the bread has been chewed away, she will marry in the coming year. If the bread is still whole, there is no such hope. (957)  
 In the middle of the night on Christmas Eve a young man or woman can go to the woodpile and pull out a piece of wood. If it is crooked or straight will reveal shape of a future spouse. (958)  
 Girls should pay attention to where the dogs bark on Saint Andrew's Eve. Her groom will come from this area. (964)  
 When the bride takes her clothes off, she must give one of her stockings to a bridesmaid, who will then throw it onto the gathered wedding guests. On whomever the stocking lands, he or she shall be the next to marry. (1106)  
 At the end of the wedding celebration, the bride and groom are to sit down on the marriage bed, fully dressed, except for their shoes and stockings. One of the bridesmaids takes off the groom's stocking, sits down on the floor with her back against the bed and throws it with her left hand over her right shoulder, aiming for the face of the groom. All the bridesmaids then repeat this, and the ones who succeed will soon be married. The the bride's stocking is then removed by the young men and thrown in the same fashion, thereby determining which of them will be next. (1107)