There was a couple here in Jutland who had a good farm, but they had no children. The wife was very distressed about this. She thought it was terrible that in their old age she and her husband should be cared for by outsiders.  
One day a beggarwoman came and said, "I think that you are troubled. What is wrong with you?"  
"Oh, I'm very concerned, because we have no children." 
"I'll give you some good advice," said the beggarwoman. "You should cut off your big toe, wrap it in cotton, and put it in a black pot, and then tomorrow you shall have a son. He will stay very small, but small and clever is much better than a big and stupid."  
The strange woman went away, and the next day the couple had a little son. He was very small, and his mother gave him the name Svend Tomling.  
When the child was eight days old, his mother was making pancakes for her husband who was out in the field plowing.  
"May I take the pancakes out to my father?" asked Svend from his bed.  
"What! Can you talk, my boy? You've learned to talk very early; but no, you're still too little to go out to the field."  
But it was no use. Svend wanted to go out. He took the pancakes and a bottle of beer in his hand and walked out to the field to his father. The man was very surprised when he saw his son coming with food.  
"You stay here in the grass until I go home," he said, "because you are too little to come into the plowed furrows. You would get completely lost in the soil."  
"No, I want to sit up in the horse's ear. That is a good place for me," said Svend Tomling.  
Then he got up there and shouted, "Giddyup, giddyup! Forward!"  
A fine gentleman came driving by on the road, and he had his driver stop. He asked the plowman about the strange horse he had that was able to talk.  
"It's not the horse," said the man. "It's my little son. He's sitting in the horse's ear."  
"Can I buy that son?" asked the gentleman.  
"No, I want to keep him."  
"Sell me, father! Sell me, father!" shouted Svend.  
So his father sold him, and he got a good price for him.  
Svend sat in the back of the carriage on a chest that was filled with money. As they drove on, he began to throw the money out of the chest, one coin after the other, and Svend's father ran behind and picked them up.  
When there was no more money in the chest, Svend jumped out of it onto the road. He could not find his way home, so he just lay there on the road.  
That night some thieves came by, talking about how they wanted to steal some cheese from the deacon.  
"Take me with you! Take me with you!" shouted Svend.  
The thieves were startled, but then they found him, and one thief picked him up and put him in his vest pocket. When they got to the deacon's, Svend went up into the loft to take the cheeses down.  
"Do you want them hard or soft, sour or sweet?" shouted Svend Tomling.  
The shouting awakened the deacon.  He came out, and the thieves ran away. The deacon went up into the loft, and Svend was also frightened. He hid in a bundle of straw.  
The next morning the deacon took the bundle of straw where Svend was hiding, and fed it to the cow. Later, the deacon's maidservent was milking the cow, but she came running in saying that there was a ghost in the cow, because it could talk.  
The deacon could not believe this, and said that he himself would milk the cow.  
When the deacon started milking, Svend Tomling shouted, "Steady now, steady now! Keep trying, and the bucket will soon be full!"  
This startled the deacon, and he swore that the cow should be slaughtered. This was done, and the entrails were thrown out onto the manure pile.  
That night a fox came and started to eat the entrails.  
"Will you soon be finished, Reynard?" cried Svend.  
This scared the fox, and it ran away.  Then a mangy old dog came by and began to drag off the entrails.  
Svend shouted again, "Keep trying, you old snowman."  
This frightend the dog, and it dropped the entrails. And then Svend ran home to his father.