I was serving my time to the cattle trade, with a man the name of Lynch --
God be good to him! I suppose I was no more than twelve years of age at
the time. 'Twas a very out of the way place and mountainy. 
 
Well, not far from my master's house there was a family of the Brogans.
'Twas the will of God that Mrs. Brogan took sick, and there was a baby
born, but the poor woman died. Well, the sister, a younger girl than the
woman that died, came to nurse the child. After some time she began to
look very delicate and uneasy. The naghbours were beginning to talk amongs
themselves about her, and it came to Brogan's ears, and, begor, it made
him vexed. So he asked the sister what was up with her.
 
"Well, John," says she, "I did not like to tell you, but Ellie" -- that
was the name of the dead woman -- "comes every night, and takes the baby
and nurses it, and goes away without a word."
 
"By my word," says John, "she is not dead at all, but taken, and I will
watch her to-night."
 
Good enough, he remained up, and about 12 o'clock in she came, and he put
his arms around her, but as he said, felt no substance.
 
"You can't keep me now," says she, "for I'm married agin; but if you come
to the Bottle Hill field to-morrow night, there will be about 40 of us
goin' t'words Blarney, and we will all be on horses, with our husbands.
All the horses will be white, and I and my man will be last. Bring a hazel
stick woud [with] you and strike the horse on the right side, and I will
fall off. Just as I fall, ketch me with all your might. You will know my
man, for he is the only one of them that has a red head."
 
Well, he went, and he must have a great heart, for on they come, gallopin'
like mad. Just as the man with the red head's horse came he stood one-side
and struck. She fell and he gripped her like iron. Well, such a hullabaloo
as there was, was never heard, and all the other men makin' game of the
red-headed man.
 
Well, he brought her home, and they lived for years after, and had a good
family, and were the happiest people around the place. I often see some of
her children; of course they are all married now, and gone here and there,
but that's as true as my name is Tim Brosnan.