Noble Tannh채user, a German knight, had traveled through many
lands. He even visited the beautiful women of the Mountain of Lady Venus,
hoping to see what great miracles occurred there. After sojourning there
for a while, with joy and contentment, his conscience finally directed him
to return to the world, and he asked to take leave.  
 Lady Venus, however, tempted him with whatever it might take to make
him change his mind. She offered him one of her comrades for a wife,
pointing out her red lips that never ceased smiling.  
 Tannh채user answered that he desired no woman other than the one he
was now thinking of, nor did he want to burn forever in hell. He was not
interested in the red lips. He did not want to stay here any longer, for
to do so would destroy his life.  
 Then the she-devil tried to lure him into her room, tempting him with
love, but the noble night cursed her loudly, calling upon the Heavenly
Virgin to help him escape.  
 Filled with remorse, he set forth toward Rome in order to confess his
sins to Pope Urban, and thus do penance to save his soul. However, after
he confessed that he had remained an entire year with Lady Venus in her
mountain, the Pope said: "Not until leaves begin to grow on this dry stick
that I am holding in my hand, will your sins will be forgiven!"  
 Tannh채user said: "Had I but had only one more year to live, I
would have shown remorse and done penance such that God would have taken
mercy on me." Grieving that the Pope had cursed him, he left the city and
returned to the demonic mountain, intending to stay there forever and
ever. Lady Venus welcomed him as one welcomes a long absent lover.  
 Three days later leaves began to grow on the stick, and the Pope sent
messengers throughout the country, attempting to discover where
Tannh채user had gone. But it was too late. He was inside the mountain
and had chosen a lover.  
 There he will remain until Judgment Day, at which time God may send him
to a different place. And a priest should never discourage a sinner but
should forgive all who present themselves with remorse and penance.