Once upon a time there was a mother who had but one daughter. She was
not an ugly girl, but she had the flaw that she was always too smart for
her own good and that she would rather eat and be lazy than work. Such
daughters bring little joy to their mothers, and so it was here as well.
The daughter could do nothing right for her mother, who for an entire year
never stopped scolding her. 
 Once the mother left early for the field, telling the daughter, who was
still in bed, "Near noontime cook some soup and put a couple of kernels of
rice in it so there will be something for me to eat when I get home. Now
"a couple" was a common way of saying "not too much and not too little,"
but the girl did not understand that. She put a kettle of water on the
fire, picked out two kernels of rice and threw them in. What a soup that
was when the mother arrived home! She scolded, but to no avail. She had to
pour out the water and make her own soup, if she wanted anything to
eat. 
 Another time the mother went away again, and said, "Boil some meat for
our noon meal." 
 "How much should I use?" asked the girl. 
 "Whatever is honest!" replied the mother, and left. 
 "Just what is honest?" thought the girl over and over. Then it occurred
to her that their donkey, standing in the stall, was named Honest. "Yes,
indeed, mother meant him," she cried. "To be sure, he is old and is no
longer worth much. I'll not get a scolding this time." 
 So she went to the stall, struck the poor donkey dead, and chopped him
up in pieces. Then she put a large washtub on the fire, threw the pieces
into the water, and let it boil until it was hissing and bubbling. When
the mother arrived home and saw what had happened she was beside herself
and began to hit at her daughter with both fists. But that did not bring
the poor donkey back to life. And his meat was so tough that it could not
be eaten. So she threw it out to the dogs, and they were only able to eat
it only because they were bitterly hungry and had sharp teeth. 
 Later the mother went away again and told the daughter, "For our noon
meal cook some mush, but do it right." 
 The daughter cooked a lot of mush, and she herself ate seven dishes
full. The eighth dish, the smallest one, she saved for her mother. When
she came home and learned that the girl had already eaten seven dishes of
mush, she became angry and began to scold loudly and intensely. 
 At that same moment a distinguished gentleman passed by the house,
heard the scolding, and entered. "Why are you scolding this poor girl so?"
he asked. 
 The mother was ashamed and quickly replied, "I am scolding her because
she works too much. Today she has spun seven spindles full, and I do not
want her to overtire herself." 
 "Can she really spin so well?" asked the gentleman. 
 "There is no one far and wide in the entire country who can spin as
well as my daughter," answered the mother. 
 Then the gentleman said, "If that is so, then you can give her to me
for my wife. I want to have a wife who works well, and I shall never find
one who is better or more industrious." 
 Mother and daughter agreed happily. The wedding took place, and the
gentleman took his young wife home with him. 
 A few days later he had a large pile of flax brought in and said,
"Listen, wife, I will be out hunting the entire day. By tomorrow evening
you are to have spun this flax." 
 She made a sour face and said, "Husband, my lord, that is not
possible." 
 Then he became angry and repeated to her, "Do you think that I took you
for a wife so you would not have to work? If you want to be lazy then you
can go back to your own house." With that he went forth to hunt. 
 The wife was beside herself. The pile of flax was so large that even
with a hundred maids she would not have been able to spin it in two days.
While she was standing there in desperation, a dwarf crept up to her. He
was dressed in red and wore a little crown on his head. He said, "Why are
you so sad? What will you give me if I spin the flax?" 
 The wife did not answer, and the red dwarf continued, "I will spin the
flax, but only under the condition that you guess my name within three
tries. If you fail to do so, you will be mine and must come with me." 
 In her desperation the wife said yes, and immediately there appeared
countless little dwarfs, and they carried all the flax away until not a
single strand was left behind. 
 That evening the gentleman returned home from hunting. Seeing his wife
quiet and still, he thought that she must be tired from spinning. Before
they went to bed he told her, "Just think about what happened to me today.
When I was up on the mountain and it was just getting dark, I came to a
split in the earth. I looked down and saw beneath me a large room where
many hundreds of little devils were hurriedly spinning flax. It was a joy
to watch them. In the middle there stood a throne, and on it sat a dwarf
dressed in red and wearing a little crown on his head. He was continuously
clicking his tongue and crying out:
 
 
 
What will she do,  what will she say, 
When tomorrow we take it to her? 
Then she will guess so and so. 
But my name is Tarandandò. 
 
 
 
 Then the wife became happy once again, and said, "Dear husband, my
lord, what did the crazy dwarf say?" And when he repeated it, she secretly
wrote down the name and went to bed feeling relieved. 
 The next morning the gentleman went hunting again. Then the red dwarf
arrived with hundreds of little devils, who were carrying the flax, all
finely and neatly spun, and not even a hair of it was missing. Then the
red dwarf approached the wife and said with a scornful smile, "Here is the
flax. Now guess what my name is." 
 Pretending to be at a loss for words, the wife said, "Is your name
perhaps Peter?" 
 "No," cried the dwarf, laughing. 
 With an even sadder face she asked, "Is you name perhaps Toni?" 
 "No," repeated the dwarf and laughed even more scornfully. 
 Then she pretended to be thinking deeply and to have fallen into
despair. But finally she said, "Is your name perhaps --
Tarandandò?" 
 "Curses!" cried the red dwarf, as though he had been stung by a viper.
He slapped her hard on the cheek, and then he and his little devils
departed into the air with such a sound of whistling and rushing that it
was like a windstorm in the fall swirling the dry leaves about and blowing
them through the woods. 
 When the gentleman arrived home that evening, his wife showed him the
spun flax, and he was uncommonly satisfied. "But why is your cheek so
swollen?" he asked. 
 "Oh, dear husband, my lord," she said, "that comes from spinning." 
 Soon afterward he had an even larger pile of flax brought in and
ordered his wife to spin it within a few days. She was beside herself, but
then it occurred to her that she had an aunt who was an uncommonly sly and
clever woman who had helped many a relative out of difficulty. She went to
her and told her of her troubles. 
 "Just let me deal with it," said the aunt. "Go home, and this evening
when your husband is at home I shall come and pay you a visit. Then you'll
see." 
 When it was evening she took a dead hen, filled it with blood and
grease, put it under her arm between her skin and her undershirt, and went
to her niece. She entered the room where the husband and wife were, and
the latter approached her, saying, "Greetings, dear aunt. It is so good
that you can visit us." 
 "Yes, yes, I have been looking forward to this for a long time," said
the aunt, and pressed her arm against her body until the blood and grease
ran out onto the floor, while she stood there all bent over. 
 "Oh, good woman, what are you doing there?" said the gentleman. 
 The sly woman looked casually at the blood drops on the floor, then
complained loudly, "Oh, my ailment! My old ailment! I have a large boil
under my arm. That's where the blood is coming from." 
 "How did you get such an ailment?" asked the gentleman with
sympathy. 
 "Do you know, my lord," she replied, "when I was young and beautiful I
always had to spin, and that is what brought on my ailment. How it grieved
my dear departed husband. I believe it was the cause of his early
death." 
 When the gentleman heard this he turned to his wife and said, "Listen,
wife, you shall never touch another spindle. I can no longer stand
spinning!" 
 That was fine with her. From that time forth she had the best and the
most comfortable life, and if she hasn't died, she is still living lazily
forth.