There was once a merchant who knew the language of beasts. But this
knowledge had been granted him only upon condition that, if he told the
secrets learnt by its means, he should instantly die. No one, not even his
wife, was aware that he was gifted beyond the common. 
 One evening, standing near his stables, he heard an ox, which had just
returned from plowing, complaining bitterly of his hard labor, and asking
the ass on which the merchant rode to business how he might lighten it.
The ass advised him to be very ill, to leave his food untouched and roll
on the ground in pain when the plowman came to take him to the field. The
ox took this advice, and next day his master was told he was too ill to
work. The merchant prescribed rest and extra food for the ox, and ordered
that the donkey, which was strong and fat, should be yoked to the plow in
his place. 
 That evening the merchant stood again by the stable, listening. When
the ass came in from plowing, the ox thanked him for his advice, and
expressed his intention to act upon it again next morning. 
 "I don't advise you to do that," said the ass, "if you value your life.
Today while I was plowing, your master came and told the plowman to take
you to the butcher's tomorrow, as you seemed ailing, and have you killed
to save your life. For should you sicken and die, he would lose the value
of your carcass." 
 "What shall I do?" cried the ox in terror. 
 "Be well and strong tomorrow morning," said the ass. 
 At that the merchant, unaware that his wife stood near him, laughed
aloud, and excited her curiosity. His evasive answers only made her more
inquisitive; and when he absolutely refused to satisfy her, she lost her
temper, and went to complain of him to her relations, who soon threatened
him with a divorce. The poor man, who really loved his wife, in despair
resolved to tell her all and die. So he put his affairs in order, made his
will, and promised to content her on the morrow. 
 Next morning, at a window overlooking the stable yard, where the cock
was gallanting with a number of hens, he heard his watchdog reprove the
bird for such light conduct on a day of grief. 
 "Why! What is the matter?" inquired the cock. 
 The dog told the story of their master's trouble, when the cock
exclaimed, "Our master is a fool. He cannot keep one wife in order while I
have no trouble with twenty. He has only to take a stick and give his
mistress a sound thrashing to make her amiable." 
 These words came as light to the merchant's gloom. Forthwith he called
his wife into an inner room, and there chastised her within an inch of her
life. And from that hour she gave him no more trouble.