Even though windows and doors may be tightly closed and locked to keep
out the alps, they can still get in through the smallest holes, which they
seek out with special pleasure. In the still of the night one can hear the
sound that they make in the wall while getting in. If one gets up quickly
and plugs up the hole, then they must stay in the room and cannot escape,
even after the doors have been opened. Then, before setting them free, one
must make them promise to never disturb the place again. On such occasions
they have complained pitifully that they have little children at home who
will perish if they do not leave. 
 A trud or an alp often travels a great distance to make his nighttime
visits. Once some herdsmen were out in the field in the middle of the
night. They were watching their herds not far from a body of water. An alp
came by, climbed into a boat, untied it from the bank, rowed it with an
oar that he himself had brought along, climbed out, tied up the boat on
the other side, and continued on his way. After a while he returned and
rowed back. 
 The herdsmen, however, after observing this for several nights, and
allowing it to happen, decided to take the boat away. When the alp
returned, he began to complain bitterly, and threatened the herdsmen that
they would have to bring the boat back immediately if they wanted to have
peace, and that is what they did. 
 Some people have laid a hackle [an iron-toothed comb for the
preparation of flax] on their bodies in order to keep alps away, but an
alp often turns it over, pressing the points into the sleeper's body. 
 A better precaution is to turn one's shoes around at the side of the
bed, so that the hooks and the laces are next to you. 
 When an alp is pressing against you, you can put your thumb in your
hand, and he will have to retreat. 
 Alps often ride your horses during the night, and the next morning you
can see how exhausted they are. 
 They can also be repelled with horse heads. 
 If you don't move your chair before going to sleep, the mare will ride
it during the night. They like to give people hair-snarls (called
whole-grain braids or mare braids), by sucking on their hair then braiding
it. 
 When a nurse diapers a child, she must make the sign of the cross and
open up a corner, otherwise the alp will re-diaper the child. 
 If you say to an alp that is pressing upon you, "Trud, come tomorrow,
and I will lend you something!" then he will immediately retreat and come
the next day in the form of a human, in order to borrow something. 
 Or you can call out to him, "Come tomorrow and drink with me," then the
person who sent him will have to come. 
 According to Prätorius, such a person's eyebrows grow together
along one line. Others claim that such a person's eyebrows grow together
on their forehead. There are others who can send an alp to those they hate
or are angry with merely with their thoughts. He comes out of their
eyebrows, looks like a small white butterfly, and sits on the breast of a
sleeping person.