Once upon a time there was a king who was a widower. He had twelve 
daughters: each was fairer than the others. Every night these princesses 
went where nobody knew. It was only for twenty-four hours, and they always 
wore out a new pair of shoes. Now the king had no shoes ready for them, 
and he wanted to know where they went at night and what they did. So he 
made a feast ready, and he summoned all the kings and 
 korolévichi , all the  boyárs , and the merchants 
and the simple folk, to it, and he asked them, "Can any of you guess this 
riddle? Whoever guesses it I will give him my beloved daughter as a wife 
and a half of my kingdom as a dowry."   
No one was able to find out where the princesses went at night. Only one 
poor nobleman cried out, "Your kingly majesty, I will find out!"   
"Very well; go and find out."   
So then the poor nobleman began pondering and saying to himself, "What 
have I done? I have undertaken to find out, and I don't know myself. If I 
don't find out now, possibly the king will put me under arrest."   
So he went out of the palace beyond the city, and went on and on, and at 
last he met an old woman on the road who asked him, "What are you thinking 
of, doughty youth?"   
And he answered, "How should I, Babushka, not become thoughtful? I have 
undertaken to discover for the king where his daughters go by night."   
"Oh, this is a difficult task, but it can be done. Here, I will give you 
the cap of invisibility; with that you cannot be seen. Now, remember, when 
you go to sleep the princesses will pour a sleeping draught out for you. 
You turn to the wall and pour it into the bed and do not drink it."   
So the poor nobleman thanked the old woman and returned to the palace. 
Nighttime approached and they gave him a room next to that in which the 
princesses slept. So he lay on the bed and began to keep watch. Then one 
of the princesses brought sleeping drugs in wine and asked him to drink 
her health. He could not refuse, and so he took the goblet, turned to the 
wall, and poured it into the bed. At midnight the princesses went to look 
whether he was asleep or not. Then the poor nobleman pretended to be as 
sound asleep as a log, and himself kept a keen look out for every noise. 
  
"Now, sisters, our watchman has gone to sleep. It is time we set out on 
our promenade. It is time."   
So they all put on their best clothes, and the elder sister went to her 
bedside, moved the bed, and an entrance into the subterranean realm 
instantly opened up beneath, leading to the home of the Accursèd 
Tsar. 
They all went down a flight of stairs, and the poor nobleman quietly got 
off his bed, put on the cap of invisibility, and followed them. He, 
without noticing, touched the youngest princess's dress.   
She was frightened and said to her sisters, "O my sisters, somebody has 
stepped on my dress. This is a foretokening of woe."   
"Nonsense; it does not mean anything of the sort!"   
So they all went down the flight of steps into a grove, and in that grove 
there were golden flowers. Then the poor nobleman broke off and plucked a 
single sprig, and the entire grove rustled.   
"Oh, sisters," said the youngest sister, "some unfortunate thing is 
injuring us. Did you hear how the grove rustled?"   
"Do not fear; this is the music in the Accursèd Tsar's realm."   
So they went into the tsar's palace. He, with his lackeys, met them; music 
sounded; and they began dancing. And they danced until their shoes were 
worn thin. Then the Tsar bade wine to be served to his guests. The poor 
nobleman took a single goblet from under his nose, poured out the wine, 
and put the cup into his pocket.   
At last the rout was over, and the princesses bade farewell to their 
cavaliers, promised to come another night, turned back home, undressed and 
lay down to sleep.   
Then the king summoned the poor nobleman, and asked him, "Did you keep 
watch on my daughters?"   
"Yes, I did, your majesty."   
"Where did they go?"   
"Into the subterranean realm, to the Accursèd Tsar, where they 
danced all night long."   
So the king summoned his daughters, and began cross examining them. "Where 
do you go at night?"   
So the princesses tried a feint: "We have not been anywhere."   
"Were you not with the Accursèd Tsar? There is this poor nobleman 
who can turn evidence on you. He is able to convict you."   
"What do you mean,  bátyushka ? He can convict us when all 
night he slept the sleep of the dead?"   
Then the poor nobleman brought the golden flower out of his pocket, and 
the goblet, and said, "There is the testimony."   
What could they do? The princesses had to acknowledge their guilt, and the 
king bade the entrance to the subterranean realm be slated up. And he 
married the poor nobleman to the youngest daughter, and they lived happily 
ever after.