When our father died, he left each of us one hundred dirhams.  My fifth
brother invested his inheritance in glassware, hoping to resell it at a
handsome profit.  He exhibited the glassware on a large tray, then fell to
musing: 
 These pieces will bring me two hundred dirhams, which I can
use to buy more glass, which I will then sell for four hundred dirhams.
With this money I can buy more glass and other merchandise to sell, and so
on and so on until I have amassed a hundred thousand dirhams.  Then I will
purchase a fine house with slaves and eunuchs, and when my capital has
grown to a hundred thousand dinars, I will demand to marry the Prime
Minister's eldest daughter, and if he refuses consent, I will take her by
force.
 
On my wedding night I will don my finest attire and seat myself on a
cushion of gold brocade to receive my bride.  She will present herself in
her most beautiful clothing, lovely as the full moon, but I will not even
glance at her until her attendants kiss the ground before me and beg me to
look at her, and then I will cast at her one single glance.
 
When they leave us alone I will neither look at her nor speak to her, but
will show my contempt by lying beside her with my face to the wall.
Presently her mother will come into the chamber and beg of me, "Please, my
lord, your handmaid longs for your favor."  I will give no answer.  Then
she will kiss my feet and say, "My lord, my daughter is truly a beautiful
maid who has never before been with a man.  Do speak to her and soothe her
mind and spirit."  Then she will bring a cup of wine, hand it to her
daughter, saying, "Take this to your lord."
 
I will say nothing, leaning back so that she may see in me a sultan and a
mighty man.  She will say to me, "My lord, do not refuse to take this cup
from the hand of your servant."  I will say nothing, and she will insist,
"You must drink it," and press the cup to my lips.  Then I will shake my
fist in her face and kick her with my foot.
 
 With that he struck out, catching the tray of glassware with his foot.
It crashed to the ground and everything broke to pieces, and thus my
brother lost both his capital and his profit.