I was moreover much interested to discover at Llanegryn a scrap of kelpie 
story, which runs as follows, concerning Llyn Gwernen, situated close to 
the old road between Dolgelley and Llanegryn: 
 
As a man from the village of Llanegryn was returning in the dusk of the 
evening across the mountain from Dolgettey, he heard, when hard by Llyn 
Gwernen, a voice crying out from the water: 
 
 Daeth yr awr ond ni ðaelh y dyn!   
The hour is come but the man is not!  
 
As the villager went on his way a little distance, what should meet him 
but a man of insane appearance, and with nothing on but his shirt. As he 
saw the man making full pelt for the waters of the lake, he rushed at him 
to prevent him from proceeding any further. But as to the sequel there is 
some doubt: one version makes the villager conduct the man back about a 
mile from the lake to a farm house called Dyffrydan, which was on the 
former's way home. Others seem to think that the man in his shirt rushed 
irresistibly into the lake, and this I have no doubt comes nearer the end 
of the story in its original form. 
 
Lately I have heard a part of a similar story about Llyn Cynnwch, which 
has already been mentioned, p. 135, above. My informant is Miss Lucy 
Griffith, of Glynmalden, near Dolgettey, a lady deeply interested in Welsh 
folklore and Welsh antiquities generally. She obtained her information 
from a Dolgettey ostler, formerly engaged at the Ship Hotel, to the effect 
that on Gwyl Galan, '"the eve of New Year's Day," a person is seen walking 
backwards and forwards on the strand of Cynnwch Lake, crying out: 
 
 Mae'r awr wedi dyfod a'r ifyn heb ðyfod!    
The hour is come while the man is not! 
  
The ostler stated also that lights are to be seen on Cader Idris on the 
eve of New Year's Day, whatever that statement may mean. The two lake 
stories seem to suggest that the Lake Spirit was entitled to a victim once 
a year, whether the sacrifice was regarded as the result of accident or 
design.   
By way of comparison, one may mention the notion, not yet extinct, that 
certain rivers in various parts of the kingdom regularly claim so many 
victims. For some instances at random see an article by Mr. J. M. 
Mackinlay, on "Traces of River Worship in Scottish Folklore," a paper 
published in the  Proceedings of the Society of Antiquaries of 
Scotland , 1895-96, pp. 69-76. Take for example the following rhyme: 
 
Blood-thirsty Dee  
 Each year needs three;   
But bonny Don  
She needs none. 
 
Or this: 
 
Tweed said to Till,  
"What gars ye rin sae still?"    
Till said to Tweed,  
"Though ye rin wi' speed  
An' I rin slaw,   
Yet whar ye droon ae man   
I droon twa."