When the Norsemen came, and their visits were frequent and numerous, to
this country and these islands, to lay claim to and take possession of the
land, the fame they gathered for themselves through their indulgence in
every manner of cruel spoliation, and slaughter of the people wherever
they landed, was that they were a bold, courageous, hardy, rough ("The
Norsemen a rough band"), peremptory and unscrupulous race, and more than
that, it was attributed to them that they practiced witchcraft, charms,
and enchantments, and had much of other unhallowed learning among them.
 
 The Norse King's eldest daughter was particularly noted for her
knowledge of the "Black Art." There was no accident or mischance that
befell friends, or destruction that overtook enemies, or any luck or good
fortune that attended either friend or foe, but it was said that she was
the cause of it, or had some hand in it. She was famed at home and abroad,
far and wide, for her skill among cows and cattle, she was said to possess
every variety of dairy knowledge in her father's kingdom. There was no
charm or evil eye that fell on any living creature in the fold but she
could dispel and avert, nor hurt nor injury they got but she could heal,
nor dizziness nor fits into which they fell, from which she could not
restore them, until it was said of her that the lowing of cattle, the
incoherent cry of calves, and the rough cry of yearlings was to her the
sweetest and most soothing music, and that she would answer the call of
cattle, though she might be lost in the midst of the northern woods, and
the cry from the nethermost part of the farthest off quarter of the
universe. She knew the herb that had the property of taking its qualities
from milk, as well as she was acquainted with the spells by which its
virtues could be restored, and every charm and invocation that was
practiced or then esteemed. The flowers of the meadows and woods were as
familiar to her as the ridges of corn or a grain on straw, and there was
not a leaf on tree, bush, or shrub, with whose properties she was not
acquainted. Her father's kingdom was clothed with pine wood, and was then
as now famous for the fine quality of the wood from which most of the
wealth of the kingdom was obtained. 
 One of those times when the Norsemen came to Scotland to take
possession of and sub-divide the land thus taken, they observed that the
pine wood of Lochaber was growing so fast, and extending so far, that in
time it might supersede the Black Forests of Sweden. But on this occasion
the northern forces were driven back. On reaching home they reported the
matter to the king, and their opinion, that the increase of the wood must
be checked, otherwise his northern woods would be of little esteem. 
 It occurred to the King to consult his daughter on the matter, since
she was learned, and to get knowledge from her of the best method of
thinning and destroying the Scottish wood. She gave him the desired
information, but said that she must be the bearer of the method and must
necessarily go to Scotland herself. She obtained the King's permission and
made preparations for the journey. 
 From the gifts she possessed, neither sea nor land, air nor earth could
hinder her progress until she accomplished her purpose. When she reached
Lochaber the method she adopted was to kindle a fire in the selvage of her
dress, and she then began to go through the woods, and as she could travel
in the clouds as well as on the ground, when she ascended and whirled in
the air, the sparks of fire that flew from her dress were blown hither and
thither by the wind and set the woods on fire, until the whole country was
almost in a blaze, and so darkened by the smoke, that one could hardly see
before them; and, from being blackened more than any tree in the forest,
by the smoke and soot of the fiery furnace which surrounded her, she was
known and spoken of by the name of "Dark, or Pitch Pine."  
 The people gathered to watch her, but from the rapidity of her ascent
and the swiftness with which she descended, they could not grasp her any
more than they could prevent her, and were at a loss what to do. At last,
they sought instruction from a learned man in the place. He advised them
to collect a herd of cattle in a fold, wherever she would stand still, and
whenever she heard the lowing of the cattle she would descend, and when
she was within gun-shot they were to fire at her with a silver bullet,
when she would become a faggot of bones. They followed this advice and
began to gather cattle and follow after her until the pinfold large and
small was full set in the "Center of Kintail." Whenever she heard the cry
of the herd she descended and they aimed at her with the silver bullet, as
the wise man told them to do, and she fell gently among them. Men lifted
the remains and carried them to Lochaber, and to make sure that dead or
alive she would do no more injury to them, they buried her in Achnacarry;
and the person from whom the story was first heard nine years ago [1880]
said that he could put his foot on the place where she was buried. 
 The Norse King was amazed at his daughter not returning, and at his not
receiving any account from her. He sent abroad to get tidings of her. When
the news of the disaster that happened to her was brought to him, he sent
a boat and crew to bring her home, but the Lochaber women by their
incantations destroyed those whom he sent. The boat was wrecked, and the
men lost, at the entrance to Locheil. The next ships that came were not
more successful. The third time the King sent out his most powerful fleet.
What they did then was to send and try through spells to dry up the wells
of the Fairy Hill of Iona. The virtue of these wells was that wind could
be obtained from any desired quarter by emptying them in the direction of
the wind wished for. When the ships were seen approaching, the wells began
to be emptied, and before the last handful was flung out, the storm was so
violent, and the ships so near, that the whole fleet was driven on the
beach under the Fairy Hill, and the power and might of the Norsemen was
broken and so much weakened that they did not return again to infest the
land.