"Mountain Uncle" was the name given by the villagers to a splendid striped 
tiger that lived among the highlands of Kang Wen, the long province that 
from its cliffs overlooks the Sea of Japan. Hunters rarely saw him, and 
among his fellow tigers the Mountain Uncle boasted that, though often 
fired at, he had never been wounded; while as for traps -- he knew all 
about them and laughed at the devices used by man to catch him and to 
strip him of his coveted skin. In summer he kept among the high hills and 
lived on fat deer. In winter, when heavy snow, biting winds, and terrible 
cold kept human beings within doors, old Mountain Uncle would sally forth 
to the villages. There he would prowl around the stables, the cattle 
enclosures, or the pigpens, in hopes of clawing and dragging out a young 
donkey, a fat calf, or a suckling pig. Too often he succeeded, so that he 
was the terror of the country for leagues around.  
One day in autumn, Mountain Uncle was rambling among the lower hills. 
Though far from any village, he kept a sharp lookout for traps and 
hunters, but none seemed to be near. He was very hungry and hoped for 
game.  
But on coming round a great rock, Mountain Uncle suddenly saw in his path 
some feet ahead, as he thought, a big tiger like himself. He stopped, 
twitched his tail most ferociously as a challenge, showed fight by 
growling, and got ready to spring. What was his surprise to see the other 
tiger doing exactly the same things. Mountain Uncle was sure that there 
would be a terrible struggle, but this was just what he wanted, for he 
expected of course to win.  
But after a tremendous leap in the air, he landed in a pit and all of a 
heap, bruised and disappointed. There was no tiger to be seen, but instead 
a heavy lid of logs had closed over his head with a crash and he lay in 
darkness. Old Mountain Uncle at last was caught. Yes, the hunter had 
concealed the pit with sticks and leaves, and on the upright timbers, 
covered with vines and brushwood, had hung a bit of looking-glass. 
Mountain Uncle had often beheld his own face and body in the water, when 
he stooped to drink, but this time, not seeing any water, he was deceived 
into thinking a real tiger wanted to fight him.  
By and by a Buddhist priest came along, who believed in being kind to all 
living creatures. Hearing an animal moaning, he opened the trap and 
lifting the lid saw old Mountain Uncle at the bottom licking his bruised 
paw.  
"Oh, please, Mr. Man, let me get out. I'm hurt badly," said the tiger.  
Thereupon the priest lifted up one of the logs and slid it down, until it 
rested on the bottom of the pit. Then the tiger climbed up and out.  
Old Mountain Uncle expressed his thanks volubly, saying to the shaven 
head, "I am deeply grateful to you, sir, for helping me out of my trouble. 
Nevertheless, as I am very hungry, I must eat you up."  
The priest, very much surprised and indignant, protested against such vile 
ingratitude. To say the least, it was very bad manners and entirely 
against the law of the mountains, and he appealed to a big tree to decide 
between them. The spirit in the tree spoke through the rustling leaves and 
declared that the man should go free and that the tiger was both 
ungrateful and unmannerly.  
Old Mountain Uncle was not satisfied yet, especially as the priest was 
unusually fat and would make a very good dinner. However, he allowed the 
man to appeal once more and this time to a big rock. "The man is certainly 
right, Venerable Mountain Uncle, and you are wholly wrong," said the 
spirit in the rock. "Your master, the Mountain Spirit, who rides on the 
green bull and the piebald horse to punish his enemies, will certainly 
chastise you if you devour this priest. You will be no fit messenger of 
the Mountain Lord if you are so ungrateful as to eat the man who saved you 
from starvation or death in the trap. It is shockingly bad manners even to 
think of such a thing."  
The tiger felt ashamed, but his eyes still glared with hunger; so, to be 
sure of saving his own skin, the priest proposed to make the toad a judge. 
The tiger agreed. But the toad, with his gold-rimmed eyes, looked very 
wise, and instead of answering quickly, as the tree and rock did, 
deliberated a long time. The priest's heart sank, while the tiger moved 
his jaws as if anticipating his feast. He felt sure that Old Speckled Back 
would decide in his favor.  
"I must go and see the trap before I can make up my mind," said the toad, 
who looked as solemn as a magistrate.  
So all three leaped, hopped, or walked to the trap. The tiger, moving 
fast, was there first, which was just what the toad, who was a friend of 
the priest, wanted. Besides, Old Speckled Back was diligently looking for 
a crack in the rocks nearby. So, while the toad and the tiger were 
studying the matter, the priest ran off and saved himself within the 
monastery gates. When at last Old Speckled Back decided against Mountain 
Uncle and in favor of the man, he had no sooner finished his judgment than 
he hopped into the rock crevice, and, crawling far inside, defied the 
tiger, calling him an unmannerly brute and an ungrateful beast, and daring 
him to do his worst.  
Old Mountain Uncle was so mad with rage and hunger that his craftiness 
seemed turned into stupidity. He clawed at the rock to pull it open to get 
at the toad to tear him to pieces. But Speckled Back, safe within, only 
laughed. Unable to do any harm, the tiger flew into a passion of rage. The 
hotter his temper grew, the more he lost his wit. Poking his nose inside 
the crack, he rubbed it so hard on the rough rock that he soon bled to 
death.  
When the hunter came along, he marveled at what he saw, but he was glad to 
get rich by selling the tiger's fur, bones, and claws ; for in Korea 
nothing sells so well as a tiger. As for the toad, he told to several 
generations of his descendants the story of how he outwitted the old 
Mountain Uncle.