One cold winter's day a peasant set out on a 
journey which led him through the depths of a 
forest into which he had not hitherto been. 
The result was that he lost his way, and after 
wandering about for many hours in the hope of 
finding it again, he found himself, just as dusk 
was coming on, in a little clearing where he was overjoyed to 
see a small house with a cheerful light in the window. 
 
"Here is a chance of supper and a bed," thought the peasant, and 
he made haste to go up to the cottage door. 
 
Now this house in the clearing was not inhabited by men, 
but by some strange forest folk who were called satyrs. If 
you want to know what they were like, you must look at the 
pictures. Certainly the peasant had never seen anything 
like them before, although he had often heard of them, and 
when he nearly tumbled over the little satyr children who were 
playing in the snow outside the house door, he was the most 
surprised man in all those parts. It was too late to draw 
back however, so he went boldly up to the door and gave a 
loud knock. 
 
"Come in!" cried a gruff voice, and the peasant accordingly
 went in and found himself facing the father of all the 
satyrs, who had a long beard and a pair of horns jutting from 
his forehead. The poor fellow's knees trembled underneath 
him for fright, especially when he saw all the other satyrs, 
the mother and the uncles and the aunts, glowering at him. 
 
"Please forgive me for my intrusion," said he, "but I 
have lost my way in the woods, and I am half dead with 
hunger and cold. It would be an act of great kindness if 
you would give me some food and allow me to take shelter 
for the night." So saying, to give point to his remarks, he 
set to work to blow upon his chilled fingers, which indeed 
were blue with the cold. 
 
"Why are you blowing your fingers?" asked the father 
of all the satyrs curiously. 
 
"Why, to warm them," answered the peasant, and he 
blew harder than before. 
 
"Well, sit down," said the satyr. "As it happens we 
are just about to have supper, and you are welcome to share 
it with us." 
 
So the peasant sat down to supper, and all the satyr 
family sat down too, and watched him with big unblinking 
eyes, so that he felt very uncomfortable. A big basin of soup 
was set before him, and finding it very hot, he began to blow 
upon it. 
 
At this all the satyr family cried out in surprise, and the 
father satyr said, " Why are you blowing your soup?" 
 
"To cool it," answered the peasant. "It is too hot, and 
I am afraid it may scald my mouth." 
 
Another and a louder cry of surprise came from all the 
satyrs, but the father cried out loudest of all, and seemed 
very indignant. "Come," he said, advancing to the peasant 
and taking him by the collar. "Out you go! There is no 
place in my house for a man who can blow hot and cold 
with the same breath. That smells too much of sorcery or 
magic. Out you go, I say, and practise your spells in the 
forest." 
 
So the poor peasant had to go supperless and spend the 
night in the woods, with no shelter but the trees, and the 
snow for coverlet. 
 
And, if you wish to know when all this happened, all I 
can tell you is that it was a very long time ago, in the days 
when fishes flew, and cats had wings.