It was not going well for the peasant of G. in Rinn, and his shoes pinched 
him on all sides. Once he dreamed that he should go to the bridge at Zirl 
where he would discover something important. After having the same dream 
the following night he shared this information with his wife and declared 
that he wanted to go to Zirl.  
But his old woman would not allow this, saying, "Why do you want to waste 
an entire day and wear out your shoes for nothing? You will not have as 
much as a green twig to show for yourself!"   
So he remained unhappily at home, but behold, the next night he had 
exactly the same dream again. He arose very early and hurried to Zirl. At 
sunrise he was already standing by the bridge there. After walking back 
and forth for a quarter hour, he was approached by a goat herder who 
wished him a good morning, then drove his herd onward. He did not see 
anyone for a long time after that. Noon finally arrived, and hunger was 
tormenting him. He took a piece of Turkish bread [a confection made from 
peanuts] from his pocket and let it suffice, for he was not going to leave 
the bridge for any price. But however long he waited, no one came to him. 
 
He was losing his patience, and he was irritated by the thought of how his 
wife would laugh at him and ridicule him for his gullibility. But he  
nevertheless held out, until finally the sun was about to set, and the 
goat herder returned with his herd. He was more that a little surprised to 
see that the man from Rinn was still there, and he asked him why he had 
been waiting there so long.   
"You see," said the peasant, "I dreamed that if I were to go to the Zirl 
bridge that I would discover something important."   
"Indeed!" answered the goat herder, laughing. "And I dreamed that if I 
were to go to G. in Rinn that I would find a pot of gold beneath the 
hearth."   
The man from Rinn had now heard enough. He ran home to see if the herder's 
words were true. Arriving home late in the evening, he secretly dismantled 
his hearth at once, and he did indeed find a pot completely filled with 
gold. Thus he became the richest peasant far and wide. (Zillertal)