At the time when there was nothing in the Harz but virgin forest, a
knight came here to hunt. Before he could orient himself, he became lost,
and he wandered about for several days without finding a path.  
 Finally he came upon a beautiful castle situated in a large meadow and
surrounded with water. A pathway led to a drawbridge, which had been
suspended.  
 He called out; he whistled; he waited. He didn't hear anything from
within. It was as though the castle had died out.  
 "Wait," he thought. "The castle cannot be empty. Someone will have to
appear shortly. Just sit here and wait until someone comes." So he sat and
waited, but the castle remained silent. Finally his patience wore out, and
he was just making preparations to leave when he saw a beautiful girl
emerge from the forest and walk toward the bridge.  
 "Wait," he thought. "She knows her way around here. She is going
inside." And that is what happened. When she was within a few steps of
him, he spoke to her, telling her that he had lost his way in the Harz
Forest, that he had camped out eight days in the open, and that he was
eager at last to spend a night under a proper roof. He had already sat
here for three hours asking for admission, but no one had shown himself or
let himself be heard. Further, he asked if she would be so good to ask
permission for him to enter once she was inside.  
 She said that that would not be necessary. He could come with her. She
did not need to ask anyone for permission, for she herself was in charge
here. With that she stepped on a stone that was mortared into the earth in
front of the bridge, and the bridge immediately descended. Then she took
out a large key and unlocked the gate. Together they walked through a large
courtyard and into the castle.  
 She led the knight into a beautiful room and asked him to make himself
comfortable. She told him that before anything else, she wanted to go and
prepare a proper evening meal. Surely he would like something hot to eat,
she said, adding that she too was hungry. Because she had no servants, she
would have to take care of everything by herself.  
 With that she left the room. A short time later she returned with a
beautiful roast, cakes, and many other delicious things. She set the table
and invited her guest to help himself. He did not need to be asked a
second time.  
 After they had eaten, they sat together and talked with one another.
The knight said that he felt sorry for the friendly girl, because she
lived here all alone, observing that time must pass very slowly for her.
 
 "Oh no," she said. "Time does not pass slowly for me," adding that
nonetheless she sometimes did wish for company, but if she did not have
any, she could still manage just fine.  
 The knight answered that if she did not mind, he would stay here a few
days and keep her company.  
 The hostess replied that she would be happy if he would do so.  
 The guest remained one, two, three days, and they became so accustomed
to one another that in the end the knight asked her if she did not want to
become his wife. The girl was pleased with this, and she said that she
would love to do so, if he would only promise her that every Friday she
would be able to go out and do whatever she wanted to, and that he would
not try to follow her or look after her. This he promised her, and they
became a couple.  
 They lived together a long time, satisfied with one another. They
produced lovely children, and in their happiness they lacked nothing.  
 One day a strange knight came and was given lodging. It was on a
Friday, and he asked about the lady of the house, because she had not made
an appearance. The master of the house told him that his wife was never to
be seen on a Friday, and that he -- in keeping with his promise -- had
never sought after her. With that the strange knight asked what kind of a
housewife would not tell her husband where she could be found. Nothing
good could come from such behavior.  
 This conversation so alarmed the master of the house that he immediate
set out to find his wife. After a long search, he finally came to the
cellar, where he found a door. Opening it, he saw his wife, half fish and
half human, swimming in a small pond. When she saw her husband, she cast a
sad and serious glance at him, and then disappeared.  
 The bewildered man went back upstairs to tell the strange knight what
he had experience, but he too had disappeared. Now the poor man realized
that he and his wife had been cruelly deceived and victimized by the
stranger.  
 He grieved so much for his good wife that he died soon afterward. The
lovely children also died one after the other, and the castle fell into
ruins. It is not even known where it formerly stood. Only the story
remains.