Once there was a man of the Goala caste [a caste of cattle herders],
who looked after the cattle of a rich farmer. One day a cow dropped a calf
in the jungle without the Goala knowing, and at evening the cow came
running to join the others, without the calf. When they got home the cow
kept on lowing, and the master asked whether she had had a calf. The Goala
had to confess that the calf had been left in the jungle. The master
scolded him well, so he took a rope and stick and went out into the
night. 
 But when he got to the jungle he could not hear the calf, so he decided
to wait where he was till the morning. He was too frightened of wild
animals to stay on the ground, so he climbed a tree, leaving the stick and
rope at the foot of it. Soon a tiger smelt him out and came to the place.
Then the stick and the rope took council together as to how they could
save their master. The stick saw that it could not see in the dark and so
was powerless. So the rope agreed to fight first, and it whirled itself
round in the air with a whistling noise, and the tiger, hearing the noise
and seeing no one, got frightened, and thought that there was an evil
spirit there. So it did not dare to come very near, and in the morning it
took itself off. 
 Then the Goala saw the cow come to look for her calf, so he took up the
stick and rope and followed her. The cow soon found her calf and asked it
whether it had not been very cold and uncomfortable all night. But the
calf said, "No, mother, I put my foot in these four pots of rupees, and
they kept me warm." 
 The Goala heard this and resolved to see if it were true. So he dug up
the earth where the calf had been lying and soon uncovered the rims of
four pots full of money. But the Goala did not dare to take the money home
for fear his wife should talk about it. He resolved to see first whether
his wife could keep a secret. 
 So he went home and told her to cook him some food quickly. She asked
why, and he said, "The raja has a tortoise inside him, and I am going to
look at him." 
 Then his wife said that she must fetch some water, and she went off
with the water pot. On the way she met several women of the village, who
asked her why she was fetching water so early, and she said, "Because the
raja has a tortoise inside him, and my husband is going off to see
it." 
 In less than an hour the village was full of the news, and the rumor
spread until it reached the ears of the raja. The raja was very angry and
said that he would kill the man who started the report, unless he could
prove it to be true. So he sent messengers throughout the country to trace
back the rumor to its source. 
 One messenger found out that it was the Goala who had started the story
and told him that the raja wanted to give him a present. So he gladly put
on his best clothes and went off to the raja's palace. But the raja had
him bound with ropes, and then questioned him as to why he had told a
false story. The Goala admitted that his story was false, but explained
that he had only told it to his wife, in order to see whether she could
keep a secret, because he had found four pots of money. 
 The raja asked where the money was, and the Goala said that he would
show it, but he wanted to know first how much of it he was to have for
himself. The raja promised him half, so the Goala led men to the place,
and they dug up the money, and the Goala kept half and became a rich
man. 
 
 
 Moral : 
 
 However friendly you are with a man, do not tell him what is in your
heart, and never tell your wife the real truth, for one day she will lose
her temper and let the matter out.