The devil once called on a farmer and asked him if he could give him a
job.
 "What can you do?" said the farmer.
 "Oh! anything about a farm," said the devil.
 "Well, I want a man to help me thresh a mow of wheat," says the farmer.
 "All right," says the devil, "I'm your man."
 When they got to the barn, the farmer said to the devil, "Which do you
want to do, thresh or throw down?"
 "Thresh," said the devil.
 So the farmer got on top of the mow and began to throw down the sheaves
of wheat onto the barn floor, but as fast as he could throw them down, the
devil with one stroke of his flail knocked all the grain out of them and
sent the sheaves flying out of the barn door.
 The farmer thought he had got a queer sort of a thresher man; and as he
couldn't throw down fast enough for him, he says to him, "Will  you 
come and throw down?"
 "All right," says the devil. So the farmer gets down off the mow by the
ladder, but the devil, he just gives a leap up from the barn floor to the
top of the mow without waiting to go up the ladder.
 "Are you ready?" says the devil.
 "Yes," says the farmer.
 With that the devil sticks his fork into as many sheaves as would cover
the barn floor and throws them down.
 "That'll do for a bit," says the farmer. So the devil sat down and
waited till the farmer had threshed that lot, and when he was ready again,
he threw another floor full; and before night they'd finished threshing
the whole mow of wheat. The farmer couldn't help thinking a good deal
about his new man, for he'd never seen such a one before. (He didn't know
it was the devil, you know, because he took care not to let the farmer see
his cloven foot.)
 So in the morning he got up early and went and spoke to a cunning man
about it. The cunning man said it must be the devil that had come to him,
and as he had asked him in, he couldn't get rid of him unless he could
give him a job that he couldn't do.
 Soon after the farmer got home again, his new man wanted to know what
he was to do that day, and the farmer thought he'd give him a teaser, so
he says, "Go into the barn, look, and count the number of grains there are
in that pile of wheat that we threshed out yesterday."
 "All right," says old Nick, and off he went. In a few minutes he comes
back and says, "Master, there are so many" (naming ever so many thousand
or millions and odd, I don't know how many).
 "Are you sure you counted them all?" says the farmer.
 "Every grain," says Satan.
 Then the farmer ordered him to go and fill a hogshead barrel full of
water with a sieve. So off he shoots again, but soon comes back and tells
the farmer he'd done it; and sure enough he had. And every job the farmer
set him to do was the same. The poor farmer didn't know what to make of
it, for though he was getting his work done up so quick, he didn't like
his new man's company.
 However, the farmer thought he'd have another try to trick him, and
told the devil he wanted him to go with him mowing next morning.
 "All right," says the old one. "I'll be there, master."
 But as soon as it was night, the farmer went to the field, and in the
part the devil was to mow, he drove a lot of harrow tines into the ground
amongst the grass. In the morning they got to the field in smart time, and
began to mow. The farmer he took his side, and told the devil to begin on
the other, where he'd stuck in the harrow tines, you know. Well, at it
went the devil, who but he, and soon got in among the stuck-up harrow
tines, but they made no odds. His scythe went through them all, and the
only notice on them he took was to say to the farmer every time he'd cut
one of them through, "a burdock, master," and kept on just the same.
 The poor farmer, he got so frightened at last, he threw down his scythe
and left the devil to finish the field. As luck would have it, soon after
he got home, a Gypsy woman called at the farm house, and seeing the farmer
was in trouble, asked him what was the matter. So he up and told her all
about it.
 "Ah, master," she says to him when he had told her all about it, "you
have got the devil in your house sure enough, and you can only get rid of
him by giving him something to do that he can't manage."
 "Well, woman," says the farmer, "what's the use of telling me that? I
tried everything I can think of, but darned if I can find him any job that
he can't do."
 "I'll tell you what to do," says the Gypsy woman, "When he comes home,
you get the missus to give him one of her curly hairs, and then send him
to the blacksmith's shop to straighten it on the blacksmith's anvil. He'll
find he can't do that, and he'll get so wild over it, that he'll never
come back to you again."
 The farmer was very thankful to the Gypsy woman and said he'd try her
plan.
 So by and by in comes the old fellow, and says, "I have finished the
mowing, master. What else have you got for me to do?"
 "Well, I can't think of another job just now," says the farmer, "but I
think the missus has got a little job for you."
 So he called the missus, and she gave the devil a curly hair lapped up
in a bit of paper, and told him to go to the blacksmith's shop and hammer
that there hair straight; and when it was straight to bring it back to
her.
 "All right, missus," the devil says, and off he shot. When he got to
the blacksmith's shop, he hammered and hammered at that there hair on the
anvil, but the more he hammered the crookeder the hair got; so at last he
threw down the hammer and the hair, and bolted, and never went back to the
farmer again.