An emperor, whose wife had died, came upon the horrible idea to marry his 
daughter. However, she refused, and in this she was supported by her nurse 
with whom she confided all the secrets of her heart. When the emperor 
again brought his proposal to her, she declared -- following the old 
woman's advice -- that she would accept if she could have a beautiful 
silver dress. The emperor quickly had such a dress made and brought it to 
his daughter himself, hoping that now she would cease hesitating. But the 
princess, again coached by her nurse, this time demanded a beautiful 
golden dress, that would have to be ten times more valuable than the 
silver one. The emperor immediately ordered the master goldsmiths in his 
capital city to make such a dress, taking as much gold as they needed from 
his treasury. When it was finished he joyfully took it to the princess, 
but found her as resistant as before. Now she demanded a beautiful diamond 
dress that was worth ten thousand times more than the golden one. "Such a 
dress," the nurse had said, "will cost more than his treasury contains, 
and that will be the end of his proposals."   
The emperor was astonished at this monstrous requirement, but in order to 
achieve his goal he depleted his treasury, and what was still needed he 
forcefully took from his subjects. Thus he collected enough wealth to have 
a diamond dress made than cost ten thousand times what the golden one had 
cost.   
The princess was startled when he brought it to her, and asked for one day 
to think things through. The emperor granted her this, and she discussed 
the situation with her nurse, who advised her to demand a dress that he 
certainly would not be able to have made: one made entirely of louse 
pelts, and trimmed with flea pelts.   
When the emperor heard the princess's latest wish he became angry, but 
said nothing. Instead he issued the order to have such a dress made.  It 
took an entire year to collect all the pelts and hides for this dress, and 
yet another year before they were all sewn together. Then emperor brought 
the dress to his daughter, and this time the princess -- following the old 
woman's advice -- let the marriage between herself and her father take 
place.   
That evening, after entering the bridal chamber with him, she asked for 
permission to step outside for a moment. He refused, for he did not trust 
her and thought that she wanted to escape from him. She gave him a piece 
of string, tying one end around her own left hand, and told him that if 
she did not come back in time, he would only have to pull her in.   
So the hateful father finally agreed, and the princess slipped out the 
door, where her nurse was standing ready with an old bill goat, and they 
quickly tied the string around its horns. Then the princess put on all her 
dresses -- first the one of diamonds, over that the one of gold, then the 
silver one, and over them all the disgusting one that the emperor had just 
had made. Then she fled.   
Meanwhile the emperor waited impatiently, finally pulling gently on the 
string. Outside the billy goat pulled back. The emperor finally pulled 
hard, but the billy goat would not be outdone in such a tug-of-war. 
Finally the emperor, filled with rage, jumped up and went to the door. To 
his astonishment, instead of his charming daughter he found there a shaggy 
black billy goat, which rudely attacked him with its horns. The emperor 
retreated into the bridal chamber, and called for his people, who -- led 
by the nurse -- came to him. The emperor vented his anger with a storm of 
curse words. He told of his adventure and ordered that the billy goat be 
taken away.   
The nurse began to shriek, "See here, you tyrannical father, see what you 
have caused? God has punished you because of your wicked marriage. He has 
transformed your daughter into this terrible horned monster!"   
With these and many other words, the cunning nurse convinced the deceived 
ruler that the just anger of God had caused this miracle. Filled with 
shame, he said nothing more about the matter.   
Meanwhile the princess fled into a great forest, where -- since the season 
was right -- she lived from berries and nuts that she found in the bushes.  
  
Now it happened that the prince of the kingdom to which these woods 
belonged was hunting there. Evening was approaching when the prince, 
accompanied by just one servant, pursued a wild boar into a deep thicket. 
To his great astonishment he saw there an unusual forest creature. Not 
knowing what to make of it, he aimed an arrow at it. When he saw that it 
was not moving, he climbed the tree and captured the unknown animal alive. 
  
With great clamor the forest creature was led through the city to the 
palace. There, because of its disgusting fur, it was turned over to the 
swineherd, who locked it in his worst pig stall, above which was a chicken 
coop. Thus the unknown forest creature's fur became even filthier. From 
the scraps that they brought it to eat, it would take only berries and 
nuts from the forest.   
Soon afterward there was a glorious festival in the city. The son of a 
well-known gentleman was getting married. All the beautiful and important 
people were gathered there: maidens, ladies, and gentlemen, whatever their 
names.   
When evening came the princess, pulled off her disgusting garb, revealing 
the silver dress beneath it, left the pig stall, and went to the wedding. 
The prince, who was also there, saw her and danced with her; and because 
he found her so extraordinarily beautiful he gave her a valuable ring, 
after having spoken with her, and in the end having danced only with her. 
  
Morning approached, and the unknown beauty disappeared from the hall 
without anyone observing where she went. The princess had put her stall 
garb back on and was peacefully asleep in the pig stall.   
On the second evening she again appeared at the wedding, this time in her 
golden dress. The prince, who had been looking for her, was very happy to 
see her, and did not leave her side, for he wanted to know who this 
exceptionally wealthy gleaming beauty was. However, although he watched 
her carefully, trying to prevent her from escaping again, she took 
advantage of an opportune moment and slipped away. Before anyone noticed 
her absence she was again hidden beneath her filthy garb in the pig stall. 
  
On the third evening the mysterious maiden once again appeared at the 
wedding. Her glorious diamond dress astonished everyone. The prince 
thought that a maiden wearing such an incalculably costly dress must be of 
high nobility, but he was a thousand times more impressed by her personal 
beauty. He happily conversed with her alone, but to his dismay she would 
not tell him who she was or where she came from.   
As morning approached she again slipped away from the hall so cunningly 
that neither the prince nor anyone else noticed her leave.   
The wedding was now over, and the prince had no hope of seeing his 
mysterious beloved again. This made him seriously ill. The princess sat in 
her pig stall, but not as calmly as earlier, for she too had fallen in 
love. A few days passed, and the prince, almost dying of longing, did not 
leave his bed. Then one of his friends came to visit him, and he ordered 
breakfast for the prince.  
The strange forest creature appeared to be quiet and well-behaved, so they 
let it run about freely. On this morning it had gone to the kitchen to 
warm itself by the fire, for it was cold in the stall. Reluctantly the 
kitchen maid had allowed this, and the forest creature was cowering next 
to the stove. When milk was placed on the fire, the forest creature asked 
who it was for. Learning that it was for the prince, she secretly pulled 
from her finger the ring that the prince had given her at the wedding, and 
dropped it into the pot. After warming herself, she crept back to the pig 
stall, put on her diamond dress, and was once again the most beautiful 
princess.   
Meanwhile the prince was eating breakfast with his friend, and he was 
shocked almost to death to discover at the bottom of the milk pot the ring 
that he had given to his beloved mysterious stranger. He immediately 
summoned the kitchen maid who had prepared his breakfast, but she swore 
that she did not know how the ring came to be in the pot. The prince 
investigated further: Who else had been in the kitchen. Finally the girl 
admitted, after resisting for a long time, that the ugly forest creature 
had been there warming itself by the fire.   
The prince and his friend immediately went to the stall where the 
disgusting forest creature was kept. He opened the door and looked inside, 
then took three steps back in joyful surprise. There sat his beautiful and 
beloved mysterious stranger, dressed in her glorious gown.   
She stepped out and said, "I am the one, my prince!"   
Answering his questions as to how she had come to this horrible place, she 
told him her story, which astonished everyone. Then the prince tenderly 
took his beloved princess into his arms. Soon thereafter, to the pleasure 
of the entire court, a magnificent wedding brought this story to a happing 
end.