Once upon a time there was a shepherd boy who lived happily with his goats in the green forest and on the lofty heights, without wishing for anything better.  
One day he found two women sleeping in the forest. Since the sun was hot on them, he cut branches and made a green roof over them so that they were now lying in the shade. Soon afterwards they awoke and were quite amazed.  
"Oh," they said, "who built the little green shelter for us?"  
The boy approached them and said: "I did it."  
They praised him, and one of them said: "You may ask anything from me, and you shall have it."  
The boy replied: "Give me a little flute which will make everyone who hears it dance when I blow onto it."  
The woman gave this to him.  
Then the second woman said: "I too want to give you something. What do you want?"  
The boy answered: "Give me a rifle with which without powder or shot I can hit all the birds I see in the air!"  
She gave him the rifle. He thanked them and happily went on his way with the two wonderful gifts.  
Now that was the life! When he played his flute in the forest, the geese danced merrily around him, and the hares in the bushes, and the squirrels in the trees, and even the foxes in their dens came and danced as if they had all gone mad. And when a bird of prey soared in the air, or a nasty raven croaked, he took his rifle and shot them down. But he did nothing to harm the dear little songbirds. He let them sing and hop as much as they wanted.  
Once a priest was walking through the forest. The boy had just shot a bird, which had fallen into some thorn bushes. The priest went and wanted to get the bird out. Then the boy began to play his flute. and the poor man had to dance in the thorn bushes until he was all torn and bloody. He went to court and brought charges against the shepherd. The court sent out henchmen to seize the boy; but as they approached him he began to blow on his flute, and they had to dance until he stopped playing. They were now so tired that they could hardly stand upright. He did that every time they tried to capture him. However, they finally attacked him by surprise, snatched the flute from him, bound him, and led him bound to the dungeon.  
He was brought to trial, and the judges pronounced the verdict that he should die on the gallows. He had been led to the gallows and was about to be hanged when he begged for mercy and to be granted one final request. This was granted to him, and he asked to be able to play his flute one final time. When he began to play, the hangman, who already had the rope in his hand, began to dance merrily. The judges too, and the henchmen, and the spectators all danced until they were dead tired.  
Thus the boy escaped easily, and he never let himself be captured again.