In the north of Ireland there are spinning meetings of unmarried
females frequently held at the houses of farmers, called  kemps .
Every young woman who has got the reputation of being a quick and expert
spinner attends where the kemp is to be held, at an hour usually before
daylight, and on these occasions she is accompanied by her sweetheart or
some male relative, who carries her wheel, and conducts her safely across
the fields or along the road, as the case may be. 
 A kemp is, indeed, an animated and joyous scene, and one, besides which
is calculated to promote industry and decent pride. Scarcely anything can
be more cheering and agreeable than to hear at a distance, breaking the
silence of morning, the light-hearted voices of many girls either in mirth
or song, the humming sound of the busy wheels -- jarred upon a little, it
is true, by the stridulous noise and checkings of the reels, and the
voices of the reelers, as they call aloud the checks, together with the
name of the girl and the quantity she has spun up to that period; for the
contest is generally commenced two or three hours before daybreak. This
mirthful spirit is also sustained by the prospect of a dance -- with
which, by the way, every kemp closes; and when the fair victor is
declared, she is to be looked upon as the queen of the meeting, and
treated with the necessary respect. 
 But to our tale. Everyone knew Shaun Buie M'Gaveran to be the cleanest,
best-conducted boy, and the most industrious too, in the whole parish of
Faugh-a-ballagh. Hard was it to find a young fellow who could handle a
flail, spade, or reaping-hook in better style, or who could go through his
day's work in a more creditable or workmanlike manner. In addition to
this, he was a fine, well-built, handsome young man as you could meet in a
fair; and so, sign was on it, maybe the pretty girls weren't likely to
pull each other's caps about him Shaun, however, was as prudent as he was
good looking; and although he wanted a wife, yet the sorrow one of him but
preferred taking a well-handed, smart girl, who was known to be well
behaved and industrious, like himself. Here, however, was where the puzzle
lay on him; for instead of one girl of that kind, there were in the
neighborhood no less than a dozen of them -- all equally fit and willing
to become his wife, and all equally good looking.  
 There were two, however, whom he thought a trifle above the rest; but
so nicely balanced were Biddy Corrigan and Sally Gorman, that for the life
of him he could not make up his mind to decide between them. Each of them
had won her kemp; and it was currently said by them who ought to know,
that neither of them could overmatch the other. No two girls in the parish
were better respected, or deserved to be so; and the consequence was, they
had everyone's good word and good wish. 
 Now it so happened that Shaun had been pulling a cord with each; and as
he knew not how to decide between, he thought he would allow them to do
that themselves if they could. He accordingly gave out to the neighbors
that he would hold a kemp on that day week, and he told Biddy and Sally
especially that he had made up his mind to marry whichever of them won the
kemp, for he knew right well, as did all the parish, that on of them must.
The girls agreed to this very good-humoredly, Biddy telling Sally that she
(Sally) would surely win it; and Sally not to be outdone in civility,
telling the same thing to her. 
 Well, the week was nearly past, there being but two days till that of
the kemp, when, about three o'clock, there walks into the house of old
Paddy Corrigan a little woman dressed in high-heeled shoes and a short red
cloak. There was no one in the house but Biddy at the time, who rose up
and placed a chair near the fire, and asked the little red woman to sit
down and rest herself. She accordingly did so, and in a short time a
lively chat commenced between them. 
 "So," said the strange woman, "there's to be a great kemp in Shaun Buie
M'Gaveran's?" 
 "Indeed there is that, good woman," replied Biddy, smiling and blushing
to back of that again, because she knew her own fate depended on it. 
 "And," continued the little woman, "whoever wins the kemp wins a
husband?" 
 "Aye, so it seems." 
 "Well, whoever gets Shaun will be a happy woman, for he's the moral of
a good boy." 
 "That's nothing but the truth, anyhow," replied Biddy, sighing, for
fear, you may be sure, that she herself might lose him; and indeed a young
woman might sigh from many a worse reason. "But," said she, changing the
subject, "you appear to be tired, honest woman, an' I think you had better
eat a bit, an' take a good drink of  buinnhe ramwher  (thick milk) to
help you on you journey." 
 "Thank you kindly, a colleen," said the woman; "I'll take a bit, of you
plase, hopin', at the same time, that you won't be the poorer of it this
day twelve months." 
 "Sure," said the girl, "you know that what we give from kindness ever
an' always leaves a blessing behind it." 
 "Yes, acushla, when it  is  given from kindness." 
 She accordingly helped herself to the food that Biddy placed before
her, and appeared, after eating, to be very much refreshed. 
 "Now," said she, rising up, "you're a very good girl, an' if you are
able to find out my name before Tuesday, the kemp-day, I tell you that
you'll win it, and gain the husband." 
 "Why," said Biddy, "I never saw you before. I don't know who you are,
nor where you live; how then can I ever find out your name?" 
 "You never saw me before, sure enough," said the old woman, "an' I tell
you that you never will see me again but once; an' yet if you have not my
name for me at the close of the kemp, you'll lose all, an' that will leave
you a sore heart, for well I know you love Shaun Buie." 
 So saying, she went away, and left poor Biddy quite cast down at what
she had said, for, to tell the truth, she loved Shaun very much, and had
no hopes of being able to find out the name of the little woman, on which,
it appeared, so much to her depended. 
 It was very near the same hour of the same day that Sally Gorman was
sitting alone in her father's house, thinking of the kemp, when who should
walk in to her but our friend the little red woman. 
 "God save you, honest woman," said Sally, "this is a fine day that's in
it, the Lord be praised!" 
 "It is," said the woman, "as fine a day as one could wish for; indeed
it is." 
 "Have you no news on your travels?" asked Sally. 
 "The only news in the neighborhood," replied the other, "is this great
kemp that's to take place a Shaun Buie B'Gaveran's. They say you're either
to win him or lose him then," she added, looking closely at Sally as she
spoke. 
 "I'm not very much afraid of that," said Sally, with confidence; "but
even if I do lose him, I may get as good." 
 "It's not easy gettin' as good," rejoined the old woman, "an' you ought
to be very glad to win him, if you can." 
 "Let me alone for that," said Sally. "Biddy's a good girl, I allow; but
as for spinnin', she never saw the day she could leave me behind her.
Won't you sit an' rest you?" she added; "maybe you're tired." 
 "It's time for you to think of it,"  thought  the woman, but she
spoke nothing; "but," she added to herself on reflection, "it's better
late than never -- I'll sit awhile, till I see a little closer what she's
made of." 
 She accordingly sat down and chatted upon several subjects such as
young women like to talk about, for about half an hour; after which she
arose, and taking her little staff in hand, she bade Sally good-bye, and
went her way. 
 After passing a little from the house she looked back, and could not
help speaking to herself as follows: 
 
 
 She's smooth and smart, 
But she wants the heart; 
She's tight and neat, 
But she gave no meat. 
 
 
 
 Poor Biddy now made all possible inquiries about the old woman, but to
no purpose. Not a soul she spoke to about her had ever seen or heard of
such a woman. She felt very dispirited, and began to lose heart, for there
is no doubt that if she missed Shaun it would have cost her many a
sorrowful day. She knew she would never get his equal, or at least anyone
that she loved so well. 
 At last the kemp day came, and with it all the pretty girls of the
neighborhood to Shaun Buie's. Among the rest, the two that were to decide
their right to him were doubtless the handsomest pair by far, and everyone
admired them. To be sure, it was a blithe and merry place, and many a
light laugh and sweet song rang out from pretty lips that day. Biddy and
Sally, as everyone expected were far ahead of the rest, but so even in
their spinning that the reelers could not for the life of them declare
which was the better. It was neck-and-neck and head-and-head between the
pretty creatures, and all who were at the kemp felt themselves would up to
the highest pitch of interest and curiosity to know which of them would be
successful. 
 The day was now more than half gone, and no difference was between
them, when, to the surprise and sorrow of everyone present, Biddy
Corrigan's  heck  broke in two, and so to all appearance ended the
contest in favor of her rival; and what added to her mortification, she
was ignorant of the little red woman's name as ever. What was to be done?
All that could be done was done. Her brother, a boy of about fourteen
years of age, happened to be present when the accident took place, having
been sent by his father and mother to bring them word how the match went
on between the rival spinsters. Johnny Corrigan was accordingly dispatched
with all speed to Donnel M'Cusker's, the wheelwright, in order to get the
heck mended, that being Biddy's last but hopeless chance. Johnny's anxiety
that his sister should win was of course very great, and in order to lose
as little time as possible he struck across the country, passing through,
or rather close by, Kilrudden forth, a place celebrated as a resort of the
fairies. What was his astonishment, however, as he passed a white-thorn
tree, to hear a female voice singing, in accompaniment to the sound of a
spinning wheel, the following words: 
 
 
 There's a girl in this town doesn't know my name; 
But my name's Even Trot -- Even Trot. 
 
 
 
 "There's a girl in this town," said the lad, "who's in great distress,
for she has broken her heck, and lost a husband. I'm now goin' to Donnel
M'Cusker's to get it mended." 
 "What's her name?" said the little red woman. 
"Biddy Corrigan." 
 The little woman immediately whipped out the heck from her own wheel,
and giving it to the boy, desired him to take it to his sister, and never
mind Donnel M'Cusker. 
 "You have little time to lose," she added, "so go back and give her
this; but don't tell her how you got it, nor, above all things, that it
was Even Trot that gave it to you." 
 The lad returned, and after giving the heck to his sister, as a matter
of course told her that it was a little red woman called Even Trot that
sent it to her, a circumstance which made tears of delight start to
Biddy's eyes, for she know now that Even Trot was the name of the old
woman, and having know that she felt that something good would happen to
her. She now resumed her spinning, and never did human fingers let down
the thread so rapidly. The whole kemp were amazed at the quantity which
from time to time filled her pirn. The hearts of her friends began to
rise, and those of Sally's party to sink, as hour after hour she was fast
approaching her rival, who now spun if possible with double speed on
finding Biddy coming up with her. 
 At length they were again even, and just at that moment in came her
friend the little red woman, and asked aloud, "Is there anyone in this
kemp that knows my name?" This question she asked three times before Biddy
could pluck up courage to answer her. She at last said: 
 
 
 There's a girl in this town does know my name -- 
Your name is Even Trot -- Even Trot. 
 
 
 
 "Aye," said the old woman, "and so it is; and let that name be your
guide and your husband's through life. Go steadily along, but let your
step be even; stop little; keep always advancing; and you'll never have
cause to rue the day that you first saw Even Trot." 
 We need scarcely add that Biddy won the kemp and the husband, and that
she and Shaun lived long and happily together; and I have only now to
wish, kind reader, that you and I may live longer and more happily
still.