Suka Saptati; or, Seventy Tales of a Parrot 
In a forest called Pushpâkara, lived a small monkey
whose name was Vanapriya. One day he was
walking close to the river bank, when he saw a
crocodile basking in the sun.   
"Friend Crocodile,"
said he, "are you tired of life that you have come
so close into land?"   
The crocodile heard what
the monkey said and replied: "He who has a
situation that suits him, he who receives due wages
for his services, is perfectly content with the place
in which he happens to be. For it has been said:
 
Lanka is altogether made of gold, yet I care
nothing for it. Ayodhya, the home of my fathers,
is but poor, yet I delight in it.
 
 But there is something
more than that, for your acquaintance has
added additional pleasure to my existence. For
it is written:   A sacred bathing-place is only profitable
sometimes. But the mere sight of a good man is
always a source of purification.  So now a piece of 
luck has happened to me, in that I have come
across one who speaks such kindly words as you."  
"My dear Crocodile," answered the monkey," from this day forward I shall be entirely devoted
to you, for your words are indeed the words of
friendship. As it has been said:   Friendship, in the opinion of wise men, is the
society of the good.  Therefore," continued the
monkey, "let me offer you such hospitality as I
am capable of."   
So saying he brought the crocodile
some ripe fruit as sweet as nectar.  
So after this every day the monkey used to bring
his friend the crocodile plaintain fruit, and the
crocodile took it home to his wife. One day she
asked him where this fruit came from, and he told
her the whole story, exactly as it all happened.   
She thought to herself, "This monkey seems to enjoy
excellent fruit, I wonder what his ordinary food
is like," and so, being in a condition which gave her
a craving for all sorts of strange out-of-the-way
things, she said to her husband: "I must have
some of that fruit which the monkey is always
eating; if you don't get it for me I shall certainly
die."   
So off the crocodile started on his errand,
and soon arrived at the river bank where he had
met the monkey the first time. The monkey was
there, and the crocodile said to him, "My dear 
friend! Your brother's wife is very anxious to
see you; will you come with me to our house?"  
The monkey accepted the invitation, and without
any hesitation mounted the crocodile's back, and
they started on their journey.   
On the way the
monkey became a little anxious, and said: "It
has occurred to me how am I to find my way back?"  
The crocodile recognized the monkey's difficulty,
and explained carefully to him the way home.  
The monkey replied, "My good crocodile! It is
of no use your telling me all this, I am sure I should
not recollect it. Besides, I think my affection for
you has something lessened, so it is of no use my
going home with you."   
The crocodile rejoined,
"Well, where shall I put you down?"   
"My dear friend!" answered the monkey, "haven't you
heard the saying:  My heart is always in the fig
tree; my desire always for the sacred fig ? If
you know what that means you will take me back
at once."  
The stupid crocodile at these words turned round
and took the monkey back to the river bank, and
as soon as they had got there, the monkey jumped
off the crocodile's back, and scrambled up into the
tree.   
When he was well out of reach, he turned
round and said with a jeer, "Go along with you!
As long as I am up here I am out of your clutches.
Wise men say,  There can be no friendship between
creatures that live on land and those that live in
the water. "   
So the crocodile turned back and
went sadly home, and the moral is: That he who
has wit enough, can get out of difficulties, whatever
they may be.