In the beginning there was no enmity between the cat and dog, and they
lived on friendly terms together and served their master (Adam)
faithfully, each one doing its own work.  
But as you know, it is very much better to have a written agreement at the
beginning than to have a row afterwards, so they decided to draw up an
agreement defining the work which each had to do, and decided that the dog
was to do the work outside the house, and the cat the work inside. For
greater safety the dog agreed that the cat should take care of the
agreement, and the cat put it in the loft.  
After a time, the devil, who could not allow peace to last for a long
time, must needs set the dog up against the cat; so one day the dog
remarked to the cat that he was not fairly treated. He did not see why he
should have all the trouble outside the house, to watch for thieves and
protect the house and suffer from cold and rain, and only have scraps and
bones for food, and sometimes nothing at all, whilst the cat had all the
comfort, purring and enjoying herself, and living near the hearth in
warmth and safety.  
The cat said, "An agreement is an agreement."  
The dog replied, "Let me see that agreement."  
The cat went quickly up the loft to fetch the agreement, but the
agreement, which had been a little greasy, had been nibbled by the mice
who were living in the loft, and they went on nibbling away until nothing
was left of it but a heap of paper fluff, and as it was as soft as down
the mice made their home of it.  
When the cat came up and saw what the mice had done, her fury knew no
bounds. She pursued them madly, killing as many as she could seize, and
running after the others with the intent of catching them.  
When she came down the dog asked her for the agreement, and as the cat had
not brought it, the dog, taking hold of her, shook her until he got tired
of shaking her.  
Since that time, whenever a dog meets a cat he asks her for the agreement,
and as she cannot show it to him he goes for her. And the cat, knowing
what the mice had done to her, runs after them when she sees them.