One night a number of fishermen quartered themselves in a hut by a fishing 
village on the northwest shores of an island. After they had gone to bed, 
and while they were yet awake, they saw a white, dew-besprinkled woman's 
hand reaching in through the door. They well understood that their visitor 
was a sea nymph, who sought their destruction, and feigned unconsciousness 
of her presence.   
The following day their number was added to by the coming of a young, 
courageous and newly married man from Kinnar, in Lummelund. When they 
related to him their adventure of the night before, he made fun of their 
being afraid to take a beautiful woman by the hand, and boasted that if he 
had been present he would not have neglected to grasp the proffered hand. 
  
That evening when they laid themselves down in the same room, the late 
arrival with them, the door opened again, and a plump, white woman's arm, 
with a most beautiful hand, reached in over the sleepers.   
The young man arose from his bed, approached the door and seized the 
outstretched hand, impelled, perhaps, more by the fear of his comrades 
scoffing at his boasted bravery, than by any desire for a closer 
acquaintance with the strange visitor.  
Immediately his comrades witnessed him drawn noiselessly out through the 
door, which closed softly after him. They thought he would return soon, 
but when morning approached and he did not appear, they set out in search 
of him. Far and near the search was pursued, but without success. His 
disappearance was complete.   
Three years passed and nothing had been heard of the missing man. His 
young wife, who had mourned him all this time as dead, was finally 
persuaded to marry another. On the evening of the wedding day, while the 
mirth was at its highest, a stranger entered the cottage. Upon closer 
observation some of the guests thought they recognized the bride's former 
husband.   
The utmost surprise and commotion followed.   
In answer to the inquiries of those present as to where he came from and 
where he had been, he related that it was a sea nymph whose hand he had 
taken that night when he left the fisherman's hut; and that he was dragged 
by her down into the sea. In her pearly halls he forgot his wife, parents, 
and all that was loved by him until the morning of that day, when the sea 
nymph exclaimed, "There will be a dusting out in Kinnar this evening."   
Then his senses immediately returned, and, with anxiety, he asked, "Then 
it is my wife who is to be the bride?"   
The sea nymph replied in the affirmative.   
At his urgent request, she allowed him to come up to see his wife as a 
bride, stipulating that when he arrived at the house he should not enter. 
When he came and saw her adorned with garland and crown he could, 
nevertheless, not resist the desire to enter. Then came a tempest and took 
away half the roof of the house, whereupon the man fell sick and three 
days later died.