Upon the estate of Hellerup, in the parish of Ljungby, there lived, many 
years ago, a gentleman of rank, who had a daughter renowned for her 
gentleness as well as for her beauty and intelligence. One night, while 
lying awake in her bed, watching the moonbeams dancing upon her chamber 
floor, her door was opened and a little fairy, clad in a gray jacket and 
red cap, tripped lightly in and toward her bed.   
"Do not be afraid, gracious lady!" said he, and looked her in the eye in a 
friendly manner. "I have come to ask a favor from you."   
"Willingly, if I can," answered the young lady, who began to recover from 
her fear.   
"Oh! it will not be difficult," said the fairy. "I and mine have, for many 
years, lived under the floor in the kitchen, just where the water tank 
stands, which has become old and leaky, so that we are continually annoyed 
by the dripping of water, and the maids spill water upon the floor, which 
drips through, so that it is never dry in our home."   
"That shall be seen to in the morning," promised the lady, and the fairy, 
making an elegant bow, disappeared as noiselessly as he came.   
The next day, at the girl's request, the cask was moved, and the gratitude 
of the fairies was soon manifested. Never thereafter was a glass or plate 
broken, and if the servants had work to do that required early rising, 
they were always awake at the appointed hour.   
Sometime later the fairy again stood at the young lady's bedside.   
"Now I have another request which, in your generosity, you will certainly 
not refuse to grant."   
"What is it, then?" asked the young lady.   
"That you will honor me and my house, and tonight stand at the christening 
of my newly born daughter."   
The young lady arose and clad herself, and followed her unknown conductor 
through many passages and rooms which she had never before been aware 
existed, until she finally came to the kitchen. Here she found a host of 
small folk and priest and father, whereupon the little child was baptized 
in the usual Christian manner.   
When the young lady was about to go the fairy begged permission to put a 
memento in her apron.   
Though what she received looked like a stick and some shavings, she 
appeared very thankful, and was conducted again through the winding 
passages back to her room.   
Just as the fairy stood ready to leave her, he said, "If we should meet 
again, and that is probable, bear well in mind not to laugh at me or any 
of mine. We esteem you for your modesty and goodness, but if you laugh at 
us, we shall never see each other again." With these words he left the 
room.   
When he had gone the young woman threw her present into the stove and laid 
herself down to sleep, and the following morning, when the maid went to 
build the fire, she found in the ashes jewelry of the purest gold and 
finest workmanship, such as had never before been seen.   
Some years later the young woman was about to marry, and preparations were 
made for a day of pomp and splendor. For many weeks there was great bustle 
in the kitchen and bridal chamber. During the day all was quiet under the 
floor in the kitchen, but through the night one who slept lightly could 
hear the sounds of work as through the day. At length the wedding hour 
arrived.   
Decked with laurels and crown, the bride was conducted to the hall where 
the guests were gathered. During the ceremonies she chanced to cast a 
glance toward the fireplace in the corner of the hall, where she saw the 
fairies gathered for a like feast. The bridegroom was a little fairy and 
the bride her goddaughter, and everything was conducted in the same manner 
as in the hall.   
None of the guests saw what was going on in their vicinity, but it was 
observed that the bride could not take her eyes from the fireplace. Later 
in the evening, when she again saw the strange bridal feast, she saw one 
of the fairies who was acting as waiter stumble and fall over a twig. 
Unmindful of the caution she had received, she burst out into a hearty 
laugh. Instantly the scene vanished, and from that time no fairies have 
been seen at Hellerup.