It is said that a monk, whose prayers were always answered, was one day 
seated on the seashore, when he saw a kite fly holding in one of its claws 
a little mouse, which escaped and fell on the monk. Touched with 
compassion for the mouse, he took it, wrapped it up in a leaf, and carried 
it home with him. Fearing that his people would not be very eager to care 
for it, he prayed his Lord to change it into a young girl; and immediately 
it became a young girl gifted with great beauty.  
The monk led her to his wife, and said to the latter, "Here is a girl who 
belongs to me, and I desire that you shall treat her as my own child."  
When she had come to the age of womanhood, the monk said to her, "My dear 
daughter, you are quite grown up, and you absolutely must have a husband; 
choose then, one to suit yourself, so that I may unite you to him."  
"Since you leave me free to choose," she replied, "I wish for my husband, 
he who is the most powerful in the world."  
"Perhaps you would like the sun?" said he; and he went to find the sun, 
and said to it, "O! thou who art so essentially great, I have a daughter 
who desires to have for a husband he who is the most powerful in the 
world; would you be willing to marry her?"  
"I will show you someone who is more powerful than I," said the sun. "It 
is the cloud which obscures me, and makes my rays pale and tarnishes the 
splendor of my fires."  
The monk went to the cloud and repeated to him the sun's words."  
"And I," said the cloud, "I will show you someone more powerful than I. Go 
find the wind which makes me come and go, which drives me from east to 
west."  
The monk went to find the wind, and said to him the same things which he 
had said to the cloud; but the wind said to him also, "I will show you 
someone more powerful than I. It is the mountain that I cannot move."  
Then the monk went to speak to the mountain, which made him this reply, "I 
will show you someone more powerful than I. It is the rat, against which I 
cannot defend myself, when he bores into me and makes his home in me."  
At last the monk went and said to the rat, "Do you wish to marry my young 
daughter?"  
"And how could I do so?" cried the rat. "My hole is narrow, and a rat only 
marries a mouse."   
The monk then prayed his Lord to change the young girl 
into a mouse, as she was before, and this to the entire contentment of the 
young girl.  
Immediately she resumed her original shape, and she ran away with the rat.