There was once a husband and a wife. The former said one day to the
latter, "Let us have some fritters." 
 She replied, "What shall we do for a frying pan?" 
 "Go and borrow one from my godmother." 
 "You go and get it; it is only a little way off." 
 "Go yourself; I will take it back when we are done with it." 
 So she went and borrowed the pan, and when she returned said to her
husband, "Here is the pan, but you must carry it back." 
 So they cooked the fritters, and after they had eaten, the husband
said, "Now let us go to work, both of us, and the one who speaks first
shall carry back the pan." Then she began to spin and he to draw his
thread -- for he was a shoemaker -- and all the time keeping silence,
except that when he drew his thread he said, " Leulerò,
leulerò ;" and she, spinning, answered, " Piciciì,
picicì, piciciò ." And they said not another word. 
 Now there happened to pass that way a soldier with a horse, and he
asked a woman if there was any shoemaker in that street. She said that
there was one nearby, and took him to the house. The soldier asked the
shoemaker to come and cut his horse a girth, and he would pay him. The
latter made no answer but, " Leulerò, leulerò ;" and
his wife, " Piciciì, picicì, piciciò ." 
 Then the soldier said, "Come and cut my horse a girth, or I will cut
your head off!" The shoemaker only answered, " Leulerò,
leulerò ;" and his wife, " Piciciì, picicì,
piciciò ." 
 Then the soldier began to grow angry, and seized his sword and said to
the shoemaker, "Either come and cut my horse a girth, or I will cut your
head off!" But to no purpose. The shoemaker did not wish to be the first
one to speak, and only replied, " Leulerò, leulerò ;"
and his wife, " Piciciì, picicì, piciciò ." 
 Then the soldier got mad in good earnest, seized the shoemaker's head,
and was going to cut it off. When his wife saw that, she cried out, "Ah!
don't, for mercy's sake!" 
 "Good!" exclaimed her husband. "Now you go and carry the pan back to my
godmother, and I will go and cut the horse's girth." And so he did, and
won the wager.