A Brahman wrote seven stanzas in praise of his king's copper-colored
silk robes. Seven men heard these stanzas and resolved to trick a foolish
king from another city.   
Traveling to that city, the seven men said to the
king, "Maharaja, what sort of robe is your majesty wearing? We have woven
a copper-colored silk robe for the king of our city. It is like the thin
silk robes from the divine world. In comparison to our king, you look like
one of his servants." Thus spoke the seven men. 
 These words brought shame to the king. Thus filled with shame, he
thought to himself, "I too am a king. Can I not have such robes woven for
me as well?" Then he asked, "What would you require to weave such silk
robes?" 
 The seven men replied, "You must obtain good silk thread and give it to
us. Then construct for us a place in your festival garden and provide us
with food and drink." Then they added, "The silk cloth that we weave is
not visible to a low-born person; only a well-born person can see it." 
 So the king procured silk thread for the men. The men took it to the
festival garden and put it away. 
 People came to the festival garden to look at the copper-colored silk
robe. The seven men were there at work. The people could see their motions
of weaving, cutting, and stitching, but the silk robe itself was not
visible. Hence each man thought to himself, "I must be low-born, for I
cannot see this copper-colored silk robe." 
 And what if these were their thoughts! Each person kept them to
himself, and no one uttered them aloud. 
 The king sent a messenger to see if the robe was finished. He saw the
seven men's motions of weaving and stitching, but the robe itself was not
visible. "If I report that I did not see the robe, they will say that I am
the son of a courtesan," he thought. 
 To hide his shame, the messenger returned to the royal house and said,
"The men are weaving a priceless robe, but the work is not yet finished.
Once finished, they will dress your honor in the robe." 
 Because of the messenger's statement, many people went to look at the
robe, but in spite of the workers' motions, the robe was not visible to
anyone. Fearing that others would call them illegitimate, they all said,
"We see it. It is indeed a very costly robe." And they went away. 
 After seven days the king himself went to look at the silk robe. He
looked, but it was not visible to him either. He uttered not a word that
he could not see it. 
 Afterward the seven men came to the king and said, "We have woven for
you the copper-colored silk robe. It is finished." Then they added, "Get
out all the clothes that you have inherited from seven generations of
ancestors. After we have dressed you in the new robe you must give us all
those other clothes." 
 Thus the king took out all the vestments from his ancestors and gave
them and all his other clothes to the seven men.  
 After receiving all the clothes, the seven men surrounded the king and
told him that they were putting on him the copper-colored silk clothing.
They stroked his head, saying that they were putting on the crown. They
stroked his arms, saying that they were putting on the jacket. In the same
manner they stroked all parts of his body, saying that they were dressing
him.   
Then they brought the king into the middle of a great procession and
announced to the citizens, "Neither his majesty our king, nor any other
person within this procession has ever worn or even seen such clothing as
this. In celebration of the king's new robe, let him sit atop the festival
elephant and be carried throughout the entire city and then back to the
royal house!" 
 Having said this, they brought forth the elephant, seated the naked
king upon it, and started him on his procession throughout the city. 
 But the seven men took goods from his house and went away. And the
foolish king remained without clothes.