In old times in Ireland there was a great man of the Fitzgeralds. The
name on him was Gerald, but the Irish, that always had a great liking for
the family, called him Gearoidh Iarla (Earl Gerald). 
 He had a great castle or rath at Mullaghmast, and whenever the English
government were striving to put some wrong on the country, he was always
the man that stood up for it. Along with being a great leader in a fight,
and very skilful at all weapons, he was deep in the black art, and could
change himself into whatever shape he pleased. His lady knew that he had
this power, and often asked him to let her into some of his secrets, but
he never would gratify her. 
 She wanted particularly to see him in some strange shape, but he put
her off and off on one pretence or other. But she wouldn't be a woman if
she hadn't perseverance; and so at last he let her know that if she took
the least fright while he'd be out of his natural form, he would never
recover it till many generations of men would be under the mould. 
 Oh! she wouldn't be a fit wife for Gearoidh Iarla if she could be
easily frightened. Let him but gratify her in this whim, and he'd see what
a  hero  she was! 
 So one beautiful summer evening, as they were sitting in their grand
drawing room, he turned his face away from her, and muttered some words,
and while you'd wink he was clever and clean out of sight, and a lovely
goldfinch was flying about the room. 
 The lady, as courageous as she thought herself, was a little startled,
but she held her own pretty well, especially when he came and perched on
her shoulder, and shook his wings, and put his little beak to her lips,
and whistled the delightfullest tune you ever heard. Well, he flew in
circles round the room, and played hide and go seek with his lady, and
flew out into the garden, and flew back again, and lay down in her lap as
if he was asleep, and jumped up again. 
 Well, when the thing had lasted long enough to satisfy both, he took
one flight more into the open air; but by my work he was soon on his
return. He flew right into his lady's bosom, and the next moment a fierce
hawk was after him. The wife gave one loud scream, though there was no
need, for the wild bird came in like an arrow, and stuck against a table
with such force that the life was dashed out of him. She turned her eyes
from his quivering body to where she saw the goldfinch an instant before,
but neither goldfinch nor Earl Garrett did she ever lay eyes on again. 
 Once every seven years the Earl rides round the Curragh of Kildare on a
steed, whose silver shoes were half an inch thick the time he disappeared;
and when these shoes are worn as thin as a cat's ear, he will be restored
to the society of living men, fight a great battle with the English, and
reign King of Ireland for two score years. 
 Himself and his warriors are now sleeping in a long cavern under the
Rath of Mullaghmast. There is a table running along through the middle of
the cave. The Earl is sitting at the head, and his troopers down along in
complete armor both sides of the table, and their heads resting on it.
Their horses, saddled and bridled, are standing behind their masters in
their stalls at each side. And when the day comes, the miller's son that's
to be born with six fingers on each hand will blow his trumpet, and the
horses will stamp and whinny, and the knights awake and mount their
steeds, and go forth to battle. 
 Some night that happens once in every seven years, while the Earl is
riding round the Curragh, the entrance may be seen by anyone chancing to
pass by. About a hundred years ago, a horse dealer that was late abroad
and a little drunk, saw the lighted cavern, and went in. The lights, and
the stillness, and the sight of the men in armor cowed him a good deal,
and he became sober. His hands began to tremble, and he let fall a bridle
on the pavement. The sound of the bit echoed through the long cave, and
one of the warriors that was next him lifted his head a little, and said
in a deep hoarse voice, "Is it time yet?" 
 He had the wit to say, "Not yet, but soon will," and the heavy helmet
sunk down on the table. The horse dealer made the best of his way out, and
I never heard of any other one getting the same opportunity.