Once upon a time three jars full of money were stolen from a raja's
palace. As all search was fruitless the raja at last gave notice that
whoever could find them should receive one half of the money. The offer
brought all the  jans  [witch-finders] and  ojhas  in the
country to try their hand, but not one of them could find the
treasure. 
 The fact was that the money had been stolen by two of the raja's own
servants, and it fell to the duty of these same two men to entertain the
 ojhas  who came to try and find the money. Thus they were able to
keep watch and see whether any of them got on the right track. 
 Not far from the raja's city lived a certain tricky fellow. From his
boyhood he had always been up to strange pranks, and he had married the
daughter of a rich village headman. At the time that the raja's money was
stolen his wife was on a visit to her father, and after she had been some
time away, he went to fetch her home. However, on his way, he stopped to
have a flirtation with a girl he knew in the village, and the result was
that he did not get to his father-in-law's house till long after dark. As
he stood outside he heard his wife's relations talking inside, and from
their conversation he learned that they had killed a capon for supper, and
that there was enough for each of them to have three slices of capon and
five pieces of the vegetable which was cooked with it. 
 Having learned this he opened the door and went in. The household was
amazed at his arriving so late at night, but he explained that he had
dreamed that they had killed a capon and were having a feast, and that
there was enough for them each to have three slices of capon and five
pieces of vegetable, so he had come to have a share. At this his
father-in-law could do nothing but have another fowl killed and give him
supper. He was naturally astonished at the trickster's powers of dreaming
and insisted that he must certainly go and try his luck at finding the
raja's stolen money. 
 The trickster was taken aback at this, but there was no getting out of
it. So the next morning he set out with his father-in-law to the raja's
palace. When they arrived they were placed in charge of the two guilty
servants, who offered them refreshments of curds and parched rice. As he
was washing his hands after eating, the trickster ejaculated, "Find or
fail, I have at any rate had a square meal." 
 Now the two servants were named Find and Fail, and when they heard what
the trickster said, they thought he was speaking of them, and had by some
magic already found out that they were the thieves. 
 This threw them into consternation, and they took the trickster aside
and begged him not to tell the raja that they were the thieves. He asked
where they had put the money, and they told him that they had hidden it in
the sand by the river. Then he promised not to reveal their guilt, if they
would show him where to find the money when the time came. They gladly
promised and took him the raja. 
 The trickster pretended to read an incantation over some mustard see,
and then taking a bamboo went along tapping the ground with it. He refused
to have a crowd with him ,because they would spoil the spell, but Find and
Fail followed behind him and showed him where to go. So he soon found the
jars of money and took them to the raja, who according to his promise gave
him half their contents.