There was once an old woman, who was all alone one evening in her 
cottage, occupied with her household affairs. While she was waiting for 
her husband, who was away at work over in the forest, and while she was 
bustling about, a fine, grand lady came in, and so the woman began to 
curtsy and curtsy, for she had never seen such a grand person before. 
 "I should be so much obliged if you would lend me your brewing pan," 
said the lady, "for my daughter is going to be married, and I expect 
guests from all parts." 
 Oh, dear, yes! That she might have, said the woman, although she could 
not remember whether she had ever seen her before, and so she went to 
fetch the pan. 
 The lady took it, and thanked the woman, saying that she would pay her 
well for the loan of it, and so she went her way. 
 Two days afterwards the lady came back with it, and this time she also 
found the woman alone. 
 "Many thanks for the loan," said the lady. "and now in return you shall 
have three wishes." 
 And with this the lady left, and vanished so quickly that the old woman 
had not even time to ask her name or where she lived. But that did not 
matter, she thought, for now she had three wishes, and she began to think 
what she should wish for. She expected her husband back soon, and she 
thought it would be best to wait until he came home and could have a say 
in the matter. But the least they could wish for must be a fine big farm 
-- the best in the parish, and a box full of money, and just fancy how 
happy and comfortable they would be then, for they had worked so hard all 
their days! Ah, yes, then the neighbors would have something to wonder at, 
for you may guess how they would stare at all the fine things she would 
have. 
 But since they were now so rich it was really a shame that there should 
be nothing but some blue, sour milk and some hard crusts of bread in the 
cupboard for her husband when he came home tired and weary, he who was 
fond of hot food. She had just been to her neighbor's and there she had 
seen a fine big sausage, which they were going to have for supper. 
 "Ah, deary me, I wish I had that sausage here!" sighed the old woman; 
and the next moment a big sausage lay on the table right before her. 
 She was just going to put it in the pan when her husband came in. 
 "Father, father!" cried the woman, "it's all over with our troubles and 
hard work now. I lent my brewing pan to a fine lady, and when she brought 
it back she promised we should have three wishes. And now you must help me 
to wish for something really good, for you're so clever at hitting upon 
the right thing -- and it's all true, for just look at the sausage, which 
I got the moment I wished for it!" 
 "What do you mean, you silly old woman?" shouted the husband, who 
became angry. "Have you been wishing for such a paltry thing as a sausage, 
when you might have had anything you liked in the world? I wish the 
sausage were sticking to your nose, since you haven't any better 
sense." 
 All at once the woman gave a cry, for sure enough there was the sausage 
sticking to her nose; and she began tearing and pulling away at it, but 
the more she pulled the firmer it seemed to stick. She was not able to get 
it off. 
 "Oh, dear! oh, dear!" sobbed the woman. "You don't seem to have any 
more sense than I, since you can wish me such ill luck. I only wanted 
something nice for you, and then -- , oh dear! oh, dear!" and the old 
woman went on crying and sobbing. 
 The husband tried, of course, to help his wife to get rid of the 
sausage; but for all he pulled and tugged away at it he did not succeed, 
and he was nearly pulling his wife's head off her body. 
 But they had one wish left, and what were they now to wish? 
 Yes, what were they to wish? They might, of course, wish for something 
very fine and grand; but what could they do with all the finery in the 
world, as long as the mistress of the house had a long sausage sticking to 
the end of her nose? She would never be able to show herself anywhere! 
 "You wish for something," said the woman in the midst of her 
crying. 
 "No, you wish," said the husband, who also began crying when he saw the 
state his wife was in, and saw the terrible sausage hanging down her 
face. 
 So he thought he would make the best use he could of the last wish, and 
said, "I wish my wife was rid of that sausage." 
 And the next moment it was gone! They both became so glad that they 
jumped up and danced around the room in great glee -- for you must know 
that although a sausage may be ever so nice when you have it in your 
mouth, it is quite a different thing to have one sticking to your nose all 
your life.