A soldier came marching along the high road. One, two! One, two! He had 
his knapsack on his back and his sword at his side, for he had been to the 
wars and he was on his way home now. He met an old witch on the road, she 
was so ugly, her lower lip hung right down on to her chin.   
She said, "Good evening, soldier! What a nice sword you've got, and such a 
big knapsack; you are a real soldier! You shall have as much money as ever 
you like!"   
"Thank you kindly, you old witch!" said the soldier.   
"Do you see that big tree!" said the witch, pointing to a tree close by. 
"It is hollow inside! Climb up to the top and you will see a hole into 
which you can let yourself down, right down under the tree! I will tie a 
rope round your waist so that I can haul you up again when you call!"   
"What am I to do down under the tree?" asked the soldier.   
"Fetch money!" said the witch. "You must know that when you get down to 
the bottom of the tree you will find yourself in a wide passage; it's 
quite light there, for there are over a hundred blazing lamps. You will 
see three doors which you can open, for the keys are there. If you go into 
the first room you will see a big box in the middle of the floor. A dog is 
sitting on the top of it, and he has eyes as big as saucers, but you 
needn't mind that. I will give you my blue checked apron, which you can 
spread out on the floor; then go quickly forward, take up the dog and put 
him on my apron, open the box and take out as much money as ever you like. 
It is all copper, but if you like silver better, go into the next room. 
There you will find a dog with eyes as big as millstones; but never mind 
that, put him on my apron and take the money. If you prefer gold you can 
have it too, and as much as you can carry, if you go into the third room. 
But the dog sitting on that box has eyes each as big as the Round Tower. 
He  is  a dog, indeed, as you may imagine! But don't let it trouble 
you; you only have to put him on to my apron and then he won't hurt you, 
and you can take as much gold out of the box as you like!"   
"That's not so bad!" said the soldier. "But what am I to give you, old 
witch? For you'll want something, I'll be bound."   
"No," said the witch, "not a single penny do I want; I only want you to 
bring me an old tinderbox that my grandmother forgot the last time she was 
down there!"   
"Well! tie the rope round my waist!" said the soldier.   
"Here it is," said the witch, "and here is my blue-checked apron."   
Then the soldier climbed up the tree, let himself slide down the hollow 
trunk, and found himself, as the witch had said, in the wide passage where 
the many hundred lamps were burning. Now he opened the first door. Ugh! 
There sat the dog with eyes as big as saucers staring at him.   
"You are a nice fellow!" said the soldier, as he put him on to the witch's 
apron, and took out as many pennies as he could cram into his pockets. 
Then he shut the box, and put the dog on the top of it again, and went 
into the next room. Hallo! there sat the dog with eyes as big as 
millstones.   
"You shouldn't stare at me so hard; you might get a pain in your eyes!" 
Then he put the dog on the apron, but when he saw all the silver in the 
box he threw away all the coppers and stuffed his pockets and his knapsack 
with silver. Then he went on into the third room. Oh! how horrible! that 
dog really had two eyes as big as the Round Tower, and they rolled round 
and round like wheels.   
"Good evening!" said the soldier, saluting, for he had never seen such a 
dog in his life; but after looking at him for a bit he thought, "That will 
do," and then he lifted him down on to the apron and opened the chest. 
Preserve us! What a lot of gold! He could buy the whole of Copenhagen with 
it, and all the sugar pigs from the cake-women, all the tin soldiers, 
whips and rocking-horses in the world! That was money indeed! Now the 
soldier threw away all the silver he had filled his pockets and his 
knapsack with, and put gold in its place. Yes, he crammed all his pockets, 
his knapsack, his cap and his boots so full that he could hardly walk! 
Now, he really had got a lot of money. He put the dog back on to the box, 
shut the door, and shouted up through the tree, " Haul me up, you old 
witch!"   
"Have you got the tinderbox?"   
"Oh! to be sure!" said the soldier. "I had quite forgotten it." And he 
went, back to fetch it.   
The witch hauled him up, and there he was standing on the high road again 
with his pockets, boots, knapsack and cap full of gold.   
"What do you want the tinderbox for?" asked the soldier.   
"That's no business of yours," said the witch. "You've got the money; give 
me the tinderbox!"   
"Rubbish!" said the soldier. "Tell me directly what you want with it, or I 
will draw my sword and cut off your head."   
"I won't!" said the witch.   
Then the soldier cut off her head; there she lay! But he tied all the 
money up in her apron, slung it on his back like a pack, put the tinderbox 
in his pocket, and marched off to the town.   
It was a beautiful town, and he went straight to the finest hotel, ordered 
the grandest rooms and all the food he liked best, because he was a rich 
man now that he had so much money. Certainly the servant who had to clean 
his boots thought they were very funny old things for such a rich 
gentleman, but he had not had time yet to buy any new ones; the next day 
he bought new boots and fine clothes. The soldier now became a fine 
gentleman, and the people told him all about the grand things in the town, 
and about their king, and what a lovely princess his daughter was.   
"Where is she to be seen?" asked the soldier.   
"You can't see her at all! " they all said. "She lives in a great copper 
castle surrounded with walls and towers. Nobody but the king dare go in 
and out, for it has been prophesied that she will marry a common soldier, 
and the king doesn't like that!"   
"I should like to see her well enough!" thought the soldier. But there was 
no way of getting leave for that.   
He now led a very merry life; went to theaters, drove about in the King's 
Park, and gave away a lot of money to poor people, which was very nice of 
him; for he remembered how disagreeable it used to be not to have a penny 
in his jpocket. Now he was rich, wore fine cloth, and had a great many 
friends, who all said what a nice fellow he was -- a thorough gentleman -- 
and he liked to be told that.   
But as he went on spending money every day and his store was never 
renewed, he at last found himself with only two pence left. Then he was 
obliged to move out of his fine rooms. He had to take a tiny little attic 
up under the roof, clean his own boots, and mend them himself with a 
darning needle. None of his friends went to see him, because there were 
far too many stairs.   
One dark evening when he had not even enough money to buy a candle with, 
he suddenly remembered that there was a little bit in the old tinderbox he 
had brought out of the hollow tree, when the witch helped him down. He got 
out the tinderbox with the candle end in it and struck fire, but as the 
sparks flew out from the flint the door burst open and the dog with eyes 
as big as saucers, which he had seen down under the tree, stood before him 
and said, " What does my lord command?"   
"By heaven!" said the soldier, "this is a nice kind of tinderbox, if I can 
get whatever I want like this! Get me some money," he said to the dog, and 
away it went.   
It was back in a twinkling with a big bag full of pennies in its mouth. 
Now the soldier saw what a treasure he had in the tinderbox. If he struck 
once, the dog which sat on the box of copper came; if he struck twice, the 
dog on the silver box came, and if he struck three times, the one from the 
box of gold.   
He now moved down to the grand rooms and got his fine clothes again, and 
then all his friends knew him once more and liked him as much as ever.   
Then he suddenly began to think: After all it's a curious thing that no 
man can get a sight of the princess! Everyone says she is so beautiful! 
But what is the good of that, when she always has to be shut up in that 
big copper palace with all the towers. Can I not somehow manage to see 
her? Where is my tinderbox? Then he struck the flint, and, whisk, came the 
dog with eyes as big as saucers.   
"It certainly is the middle of the night," said the soldier, "but I am 
very anxious to see the princess, if only for a single moment."   
The dog was out of the door in an instant, and before the soldier had time 
to think about it, he was back again with the princess. There she was fast 
asleep on the dog's back, and she was so lovely that anybody could see 
that she must be a real princess! The soldier could not help it, but he 
was obliged to kiss her, for he was a true soldier.   
Then the dog ran back again with the princess, but in the morning when the 
king and queen were having breakfast, the princess said that she had had 
such a wonderful dream about a dog and a soldier. She had ridden on the 
dog's back, and the soldier had kissed her.   
"That's a pretty tale," said the queen. After this an old lady-in-waiting 
had to sit by her bed at night to see if this was really a dream, or what 
it could be.   
The soldier longed so intensely to see the princess again that at night 
the dog came to fetch her. He took her up and ran off with her as fast as 
he could, but the old lady-in-waiting put on her galoshes and ran just as 
fast behind them; when she saw that they disappeared into a large house, 
she thought, "Now I know where it is," and made a big cross with chalk on 
the gate.   
Then she went home and lay down, and presently the dog came back, too, 
with the princess. When he saw that there was a cross on the gate, he took 
a bit of chalk, too, and made crosses on all the gates in the town. Now 
this was very clever of him, for the lady-in-waiting could not possibly 
find the gate when there were crosses on all the gates. Early next morning 
the king, the queen, the lady-in-waiting, and all the court officials went 
to see where the princess had been.   
"There it is," said the king, when he saw the first door with the cross on 
it.   
"No, my dear husband, it is there," said the queen, who saw another door 
with a cross on it.   
"But there is one, and there is another!" they all cried out.   
They soon saw that it was hopeless to try and find it.   
Now the queen was a very clever woman; she knew more than how to drive in 
a chariot. She took her big gold scissors and cut up a large piece of silk 
into small pieces, and made a pretty little bag, which she filled with 
fine grains of buckwheat. She then tied it onto the back of the princess, 
and when that was done she cut a little hole in the bag, so that the 
grains could drop out all the way wherever the princess went.   
At night the dog came again, took the princess on his back, and ran off 
with her to the soldier, who was so fond of her that he longed to be a 
prince, so that he might have her for his wife.   
The dog never noticed how the grain dropped out all along the road from 
the palace to the soldier's window, where he ran up the wall with the 
princess.   
In the morning the king and the queen easily saw where their daughter had 
been, and they seized the soldier and threw him into the dungeons.   
There he lay! Oh, how dark and tiresome it was, and then one day they said 
to him, "Tomorrow you are to be hanged." It was not amusing to be told 
that, especially as he had left his tinderbox behind him at the hotel.   
In the morning he could see through the bars in the little window that the 
people were hurrying out of the town to see him hanged. He heard the drums 
and saw the soldiers marching along. All the world was going; among them 
was a shoemaker's boy in his leather apron and slippers. He was in such a 
hurry that he lost one of his slippers, and it fell close under the 
soldier's window where he was peeping out through the bars.   
"I say, you boy! Don't be in such a hurry," said the soldier to him. 
"Nothing will happen till I get there! But if you will run to the house 
were I used to live, and fetch me my tinderbox, you shall have a penny! 
You must put your best foot foremost!"   
The boy was only too glad to have the penny, and tore off to get the 
tinderbox, gave it to the soldier, and -- yes, now we shall hear.   
Outside the town a high scaffold had been raised, and the soldiers were 
drawn up round about it, as well as crowds of the townspeople. The king 
and the queen sat upon a beautiful throne exactly opposite the judge and 
all the councillors.   
The soldier mounted the ladder, but when they were about to put the rope 
round his neck, he said that before undergoing his punishment a criminal 
was always allowd the gratification of a harmless wish, and he wanted very 
much to smoke a pipe, as it would be his last pipe in this world.   
The king would not deny him this, so the soldier took out his tinderbox 
and struck fire, once, twice, three times, and there were all the dogs. 
The one with eyes like saucers, the one with eyes like millstones, and the 
one whose eyes were as big as the Round Tower.   
"Help me! Save me from being hanged!" cried the soldier.   
And then the dogs rushed at the soldiers and the councillors; they took 
one by the legs, and another by the nose, and threw them up many fathoms 
into the air; and when they fell down, they were broken all to pieces.   
"I won't!" cried the king, but the biggest dog took both him and the queen 
and threw them after all the others. Then the soldiers became alarmed, and 
the people shouted, "Oh! good soldier, you shall be our king and marry the 
beautiful princess!"   
Then they conducted the soldier to the king's chariot, and all three dogs 
danced along in front of him and shouted, "Hurrah!" The boys all put their 
fingers in their mouths and whistled, and the soldiers presented arms. The 
princess came out of the copper palace and became queen, which pleased her 
very much. The wedding took place in a week, and the dogs all had seats at 
the table, where they sat staring with all their eyes.