Many years ago there lived on the brow of a mountain, in the north of
England, an old woman and her daughter.  They were very poor, and obliged
to work very hard for their living, and the old woman's temper was not
very good, so that the maiden, who was very beautiful, led but an ill life
with her. 
The girl, indeed, was compelled to do the hardest work, for her mother got
their principal means of subsistence by traveling to places in the
neighborhood with small articles for sale, and when she came home in the
afternoon she was not able to do much more work.  Nearly the whole
domestic labor of the cottage devolved therefore on the daughter, the most
wearisome part of which consisted in the necessity of fetching all the
water they required from a well on the other side of the hill, there being
no river or spring near their own cottage.  
It happened one morning that the daughter had the misfortune, in going to
the well, to break the only pitcher they possessed, and having no other
utensil she could use for the purpose, she was obliged to go home without
bringing any water.  When her mother returned, she was unfortunately
troubled with excessive thirst, and the girl, though trembling for the
consequences of her misfortune, told her exactly the circumstance that had
occurred.   
The old woman was furiously angry, and so far from making any allowances
for her daughter, pointed to a sieve which happened to be on the table,
and told her to go at once to the well and bring her some water in that,
or never venture to appear again in her sight.  
The young maiden, frightened almost out of her wits by her mother's fury,
speedily took the sieve, and though she considered the task a hopeless one
to accomplish, almost unconsciously hastened to the well.  When she
arrived there, beginning to reflect on the painful situation in which she
was placed, and the utter impossibility of her obtaining a living by
herself, she threw herself down on the brink of the well in an agony of
despair.    
Whilst she was in this condition, a large from came up to the top of the
water, and asked her for what she was crying so bitterly.  She was
somewhat surprised at this, but not being the least frightened, told him
the whole story, and that she was crying because she could not carry away
water in the sieve.  
"Is that all?" said the frog; "cheer up, my hinny! for if you will only
let me sleep with you for two nights, and then chop off my head, I will
tell you how to do it."  
The maiden thought the frog could not be in earnest, but she was too
impatient to consider much about it, and at once made the required
promise.  The frog then instructed her in the following words:  
 
Stop with fog (moss),  
And daub with clay;  
And that will carry  
The water away.  
 
Having said this, he dived immediately under the water, and the girl,
having followed his advice, got the sieve full of water, and returned home
with it, not thinking much of her promise to the frog.  By the time she
reached home the old woman's wrath was appeased, but as they were eating
their frugal supper very quietly, what should they hear but the splashing
and croaking of a frog near the door, and shortly afterwards the daughter
recognized the voice of the frog of the well saying:  
 
Open the door, my hinny, my heart,  
Open the door, my own darling;  
Remember the word you spoke to me  
In the meadow by the well-spring.  
 
She was now dreadfully frightened, and hurriedly explained the matter to
her mother, who was also so much alarmed at the circumstance, that she
dared not refuse admittance to the frog, who, when the door was opened,
leapt into the room, exclaiming:  
 
Go wi' me to bed, my hinny, my heart,  
Go wi' me to bed, my own darling;  
Remember the words you spoke to me,  
In the meadow by the well-spring.  
 
This command was also obeyed, although as may be readily supposed, she did
not much relish such a bedfellow.  The next day, the frog was very quiet,
and evidently enjoyed the fare they placed before him, the purest milk and
the finest bread they could procure.  In fact, neither the old woman nor
her daughter spared any pains to render the frog comfortable.  That night,
immediately supper was finished, the frog again exclaimed:  
 
Go wi' me to bed, my hinny, my heart,  
Go wi' me to bed, my own darling;  
Remember the words you spoke to me,  
In the meadow by the well-spring.  
 
She again allowed the frog to share her couch, and in the morning, as soon
as she was dressed, he jumped towards her, saying:  
 
Chop off my head, my hinny, my heart,  
Chop off my head, my own darling;  
Remember the words you spoke to me,  
In the meadow by the well-spring.  
 
The maiden had no sooner accomplished this last request, than in the stead
of the frog there stood by her side the handsomest prince in the world,
who had long been transformed by a magician, and who could never have
recovered his natural shape until a beautiful virgin had consented, of her
own accord, to make him her bedfellow for two nights.  the joy of all
parties was complete; the girl and the prince were shortly afterwards
married, and lived for many years in the enjoyment of every happiness.