Once upon a time a poor country weaver visited a town, where he saw a quantity of watermelons piled up one above the other in front of a grain-seller's shop.  
"Eggs of other birds there are," he said, "and I have seen them; but what bird's eggs are these eggs? These must be mare's eggs."  
So he looked at the grain-seller, and said: "Are these eggs mare's eggs?"  
The man instantly cocked his ears; and perceiving that he was a simpleton, answered: "Yes, these eggs are mare's eggs."  
"What is the price?" inquired the countryman.  
"One hundred rupees apiece," said the grain-seller.  
The simple weaver took out his bag of money, and, counting out the price, bought one of the melons and carried it off.  
As he went along the road, he began to say to himself: "When I get home I will put this egg in a warm corner of my house, and by-and-by a foal will be born, and when the foal is big enough, I shall mount it and ride to the house of my father-in-law. Won't he be astonished?"  
As the day, however, was unusually hot, he stopped at a pool of water to bathe. But first of all he deposited the melon most carefully in the middle of a low bush, and then he proceeded to undress himself. His garments were not half laid aside, when out from the bush sprang a hare, and the weaver, snatching up part of his clothing while the rest hung about his legs in disorder, made desperate efforts to chase and overtake the hare, crying out: "Ah, there goes my foal! Wo, old boy -- wo, wo!"  
But he ran in vain, for the hare easily escaped, and was soon out of sight. The poor weaver reconciled himself to his loss as best he could.  
"Kismet!" cried he; "and as for the egg, it is of course of no use now, and not worth returning for, since the foal has left it."  
So he made the best of his way home, and said to his wife: "O wife, I have had a great loss this day.  
"Why," said she, "what have you done?"  
"I paid one hundred rupees for a mare's egg," replied he; "but while I stopped on the road to bathe, the foal jumped out and ran away."  
"Ah, what a pity!" cried the wife; "if you had only brought the foal here, I would have got on his back, and ridden him to my father's house!"  
Hearing this, the weaver fell into a rage, and, pulling a stick out of his loom, began to belabour his wife, saying: "What! you would break the back of a young foal? Ah! you monster, let me break yours."  
After this he went out, and began to lament his loss to his friends and neighbours, warning them all: "If any of you should see a stray foal, don't forget to let me know."  
To the village herdsmen especially he related his wonderful story: how the foal came out of the egg, and ran away, and would perhaps be found grazing on the common-lands somewhere.  
One or two of the farmers, however, to whom the tale was repeated, said: "What is this nonsense? Mares never have eggs. Where did you put this egg of yours?"  
"I put my egg in a bush," said the weaver, near the tank on the way to the town."  
"Come and show us!" cried the farmers.  
"All right," assented the weaver; "come along."  
When they arrived at the spot, the melon was found untouched in the middle of the bush.  
"Here it is," cried the weaver; "here's my mare's egg. This is the thing out of which my foal jumped."  
The farmers turned the melon over and over, and said: "But what part of this egg did the foal jump out of?"  
So the weaver took the egg, and began to examine it.  
"Out of this," cried one of the farmers, snatching back the melon, "no foal ever jumped. You are a simpleton, and you have been cheated! We'll show you what the foals are."  
So he smashed the melon on a stone, and, giving the seeds to the weaver, said: "Here are foals enough for you;" while the farmers themselves, amid much laughter, sat down and ate up the delicious fruit.