Once upon a time there was a man who was so bad tempered and cross that
he never thought his wife did anything right in the house. One evening, in
hay-making time, he came home, scolding and swearing, and showing his
teeth and making a commotion. 
 "Dear love, don't be so angry; that's a good man," said his wife;
"tomorrow let's change jobs. I'll go out with the mowers and mow, and you
can mind the house at home." 
 Yes, the husband thought that would do very well. He was quite willing,
he said. 
 So early the next morning, his wife took a scythe over her neck, and
went out into the hay field with the mowers and began to mow; but the man
was to mind the house, and do the work at home. 
 First of all he wanted to churn the butter; but when he had churned
awhile, he got thirsty, and went down to the cellar to tap a barrel of
ale. He had just knocked in the bung, and was putting in the tap, when he
heard the pig come into the kitchen above. As as fast as he could, he ran
up the cellar steps, with the tap in his hand, to keep the pig from
upsetting the churn; but when he got there, he saw that the pig had
already knocked the churn over, and was standing there, routing and
grunting in the cream which was running all over the floor. He got so
angry that he quite forgot the ale barrel, and ran at the pig as hard as
he could. He caught it, too, just as it ran out of doors, and gave it such
a powerful kick that he killed it on the spot. Then he remembered he had
the tap in his hand; but when he got down to the cellar, all the ale had
run out of the barrel. 
 Then he went into the milk shed and found enough cream left to fill the
churn again, and so he began to churn, for they had to have butter at
dinner. When he had churned a bit, he remembered that their milk cow was
still shut up in the barn, and hadn't had a bit to eat or a drop to drink
all morning, although the sun was high. It occurred to him that it was too
far to take her down to the meadow, so he'd just get her up on the roof,
for it was a sod roof, and a fine crop of grass was growing there. The
house was close against a steep hill, and he thought if he laid a plank
across to the back of the roof he'd easily get the cow up. 
 But he couldn't leave the churn, for his little baby was crawling about
on the floor. "If I leave it," he thought, "the child will tip it over."
So he took the churn on his back, and went out with it; but then he
thought he'd better first water the cow before he put her on the roof; so
he picked up a bucket to draw water out of the well; but, as he stooped
over the edge of the well, all the cream ran out of the churn over his
shoulder, and down into the well. 
 Now it was near dinner time, and he hadn't even got the butter yet; so
he thought he'd best boil the porridge, and filled the pot with water, and
hung it over the fire. When he had done that, it occurred to him that the
cow might fall off the roof and break her legs or her neck. So he climbed
up on the house to tie her up. He tied one end of the rope to the cow's
neck. He slipped the other end down the chimney and tied it around his own
leg. Then he had to hurry, for the water was now boiling in the pot, and
he had still to grind the oatmeal. 
 He began to grind away; but while he was hard at it, the cow fell off
the roof, dragging the man up the chimney by the rope. There he stuck
fast; and as for the cow, she hung halfway down the wall, swinging between
heaven and earth, for she could neither get down nor up. 
 Now the wife waited seven lengths and seven breadths for her husband to
come and call her home to dinner; but he never came. At last she thought
she'd waited long enough, and went home. But when she got home and saw the
cow hanging there, she ran up and cut the rope with her scythe. When she
did this, her husband fell down from within the chimney. When the old
woman came inside, she found him with his head in the porridge pot.