Once there was a man that had an old dog, so old that the man desired to 
put him aside. The dog had served him very faithfully when he was still 
young, but ingratitude is the world's reward, and the man now wanted to 
dispose of him. The old dumb creature, however, ferreted out the plan of 
his master, and so at once resolved to go away of his own accord.   
After he had walked quite a way he met an old bull in the veldt.   
"Don't you want to go with me?" asked the dog.   
"Where?" was the reply.   
"To the land of the aged," said the dog, "where troubles don't disturb 
you, and thanklessness does not deface the deeds of man."   
"Good," said the bull, "I am your companion."    
The two now walked on and found a ram. The dog laid the plan before him, 
and all moved off together, until they afterwards came successively upon a 
donkey, a cat, a cock, and a goose. These joined their company, and the 
seven set out on their journey.   
Late one night they came to a house, and through the open door they saw a 
table spread with all kinds of nice food, of which some robbers were 
having their fill. It would help nothing to ask for admittance, and seeing 
that they were hungry, they must think of something else.   
Therefore the donkey climbed up on the bull, the ram on the donkey, the 
dog on the ram, the cat on the dog, the goose on the cat, and the cock on 
the goose, and with one accord they all let out terrible (threatening) 
noises (cryings). The bull began to bellow, the donkey to bray, the dog to 
bark, the ram to bleat, the cat to mew, the goose to giggle gaggle, and 
the cock to crow, all without cessation.   
The people in the house were frightened perfectly limp; they glanced out 
through the front door, and there they stared on the strange sight. Some 
of them took to the ropes over the back lower door, some disappeared 
through the window, and in a few counts the house was empty.   
Then the seven old animals climbed down from one another, stepped into the 
house, and satisfied themselves with the delicious food.   
But when they had finished, there still remained a great deal of food, too 
much to take with them on their remaining journey, and so together they 
contrived a plan to hold their position until the next day after 
breakfast.   
The dog said, "See here, I am accustomed to watch at the front door of my 
master's house," and thereupon flopped himself down to sleep; the bull 
said, "I go behind the door," and there he took his position; the ram 
said, I will go up on to the loft"; the donkey, "I at the middle door"; 
the cat, "I in the fireplace"; the goose, "I in the back door "; and the 
cock said, "I am going to sleep on the bed."  
The captain of the robbers after a while sent one of his men back to see 
if these creatures had yet left the house. The man came very cautiously 
into the neighborhood, listened and listened, but he heard nothing; he 
peeped through the window, and saw in the grate just two coals still 
glimmering, and thereupon started to walk through the front door. There 
the old dog seized him by the leg. He jumped into the house, but the bull 
was ready, swept him up with his horns, and tossed him on to the loft. 
Here the ram received him and pushed him off the loft again. Reaching 
ground, he made for the middle door, but the donkey set up a terrible 
braying and at the same time gave him a kick that landed him in the 
fireplace, where the cat flew at him and scratched him nearly to pieces. 
He then jumped out through the back door, and here the goose got him by 
the trousers. When he was some distance away the cock crowed. He thereupon 
ran so that you could hear the stones rattle in the dark.   
Purple and crimson and out of breath, he came back to his companions.   
"Frightful, frightful!" was all that they could get from him at first, but 
after a while he told them, "When I looked through the window I saw in the 
fireplace two bright coals shining, and when I wanted to go through the 
front door to go and look, I stepped into an iron trap. I jumped into the 
house, and there some one seized me with a fork and pitched me up on to 
the loft, there again someone was ready, and threw me down on all fours. I 
wanted to fly through the middle door, but there some one blew on a 
trumpet, and smote me with a sledge hammer so that I did not know where I 
landed; but coming to very quickly, I found I was in the fireplace, and 
there another flew at me and scratched the eyes almost out of my head. I 
thereupon fled out of the back door, and lastly I was attacked on the leg 
by the sixth with a pair of fire tongs, and when I was still running away, 
someone shouted out of the house, 'Stop him, stop h - i - m!'"