In olden times, when the castle was still standing on the hill
over there, a count lived there with his wife. They had possessions in
abundance, and they would have been the happiest couple, if they had had a
child and domestic peace. 
 From the earliest morning until late in the evening the count and the
countess quarreled and squabbled, and he never called his wife anything
but a slimy snake. 
 Thus it continued for many long years, and the count became worse than
ever, until his wife unexpectedly became pregnant. Then the cruel lord
turned more friendly and rejoiced in his future heir. This continued for
several weeks, and everyone thought that peace had come to the castle
forever, but then it turned worse than ever, for when the countess's time
came, she gave birth to a snake. 
 When the count saw his sweet hopes thus shattered he became angrier
than ever. He ranted and raged like a wild animal, accused his wife of
being a wicked witch in league with the devil, and wanted to kill the
snake without further ado. The countess pled so long and fervently that
her child be allowed to live at least long enough to see what would become
of it, that he finally relented, and did not kill the snake. But he
remained angry from then on, and finally went his own way, paying no more
heed to his wife or his child. 
 The countess, on the other hand, loved the snake as much as if it had
been the most beautiful boy and stood next to its cradle day and night.
The worm grew and grew, and the countess loved it more and more, caring
for it like her own child. Thus it continued for twenty years, and the
snake had not yet left its room. 
 After turning twenty years of age, and with the countess seated next to
it in its room, the snake one evening suddenly opened its mouth and began
to speak. "My dear mother," it said, "I am now twenty years old and would
like to get married. I therefore ask you to find me a bride." 
 The countess was very surprised to hear her child speak, and even more
so to hear what it had said. She promised to fulfill its wish and began
seeking a bride for her snake. But that was a difficult match, for even
the most marriage-crazy girls wanted nothing to do with such an
arrangement. 
 The snake repeated its wish every day, and the countess looked ever
more frantically for a bride for her child, but she could not find
one. 
 Finally she thought of the hen girl, who was a sweet and obedient
child. The countess thought she certainly would accept the proposal and
consider it a stroke of good luck to thus become a countess. But the
mother calculated badly, because the hen girl wanted nothing at all to do
with the proposal when it was presented to her. The girl thought that if
she behaved well she would get along in the world, and that she could
never love a snake. She would rather remain a poor hen girl and eat black
bread than to lead the richest life at the side of such an uncanny
animal. 
 Upon hearing this the countess grew angry with the poor girl and said,
"If you reject your good fortune, I'll find someone else." 
 But that was not to be, for the countess came away with a long face
from every place that she sought a bride for her child. 
 Recognizing the situation she returned to the dear, pious hen girl and
addressed her with sweet and kind words. "Please don't stupidly stand in
the way of your own happiness," she said. "If you marry my child you will
become countess and will be taken care of as long as you live. What
opportunities will you have if you remain as you are now? You will have to
feed the hens and will remain a lowly servant. But if you follow my
advice, honor and wealth will smile upon you." 
 Thus argued the countess until the poor girl felt like she had a mill
wheel turning back and forth in her head, and she did not know what she
should do. Seeing the girl's indecision, the countess pressed still
harder, until finally the girl -- in order to free herself from the
noblewoman -- asked for three days' time to think about it. The countess
was satisfied with this and left the child alone. 
 However, she returned the very next day and asked the child for her
decision. She did the same thing the second day. The child did not know
how to help herself and thought, "If heaven does not advise me, I do not
know what to do. If I do not marry the snake, I'll never have any peace,
for this woman is so persistent, but I do not want to marry it." 
 Burdened with these doubts the girl went out into the castle passageway
where there stood in the corner a beautiful statue of the Mother of God.
The pious girl had a special devotion to this statue and had often found
solace there on other occasions. Therefore every time she passed it she
said an Ave Maria and always felt better and stronger. This time she knelt
down before the Mother of God and prayed most fervently for advice as to
what she should do in this case. 
 After praying for a long time, the girl thought that the Mother of God
should either nod a yes or shake a no, when the miraculous statue suddenly
began to speak, saying, "Your prayer has been heard. Marry the countess's
child, for you have been chosen to redeem it. It is a snake because of the
sinful life of its parents, but you can give it a human form. So listen to
me! On your wedding night when you and the snake are alone in the bridal
chamber it will say to you, 'Get undressed!' Then you must answer, 'You
get undressed first,' and the snake will take off a skin. Then it will say
again, 'Get undressed,' and you must again answer him, 'You get undressed
first.' Then the snake will take off another skin. This must happen seven
times, and when you say for the seventh time, 'You get undressed first,'
the snake will take off its seventh skin, and the count's son will be
redeemed and will stand before you as a handsome youth." 
 Thus spoke the statue, and then remained silent. 
 The distressed girl was now much relieved, and she felt at peace with
herself. Thanking heaven for helping her, she went to the countess and
told her that she wanted to marry the snake. The countess was overjoyed.
She called the hen girl her daughter and hugged her. Then she went to her
child and introduced his bride to him. 
 Fearing that the girl might change her mind, the countess wanted to see
the couple married that very day. Thus she gave the bride jewelry and
clothing and told her to dress herself festively. As soon as the girl came
back into the room -- now washed, dressed, and bejeweled -- the countess
sent for the chaplain, who married the couple. The countess was very happy
and wished the bridal couple good luck. The snake too was in good spirits,
caressing the bride in a manner that made one wonder. 
 In the meanwhile evening came, and the stars appeared in the sky. The
countess took leave of her children and left them alone. 
 As soon as the snake saw that it was alone in the room with its bride
it said, "Get undressed." 
 The bride replied, "You get undressed first." 
 The snake seemed to be happy with this answer and immediately peeled
off a skin. Then it said again, "Get undressed." 
 The bride replied, "You get undressed first," and the snake pulled off
another skin. 
 Then it said again, "Get undressed." 
 Once again the bride answered as she had the first two times. And thus
it continued seven times, and when the bride said for the seventh time,
"You get undressed first," the snake pulled off its seventh and last skin,
and behold, instead of a snake, there stood before her a marvelously
handsome youth, better looking than any knight she had ever seen. 
 He rushed toward her, embraced her and caressed her and called her his
dearly beloved bride and his redeemer. Then they climbed into the high
bridal bed and slept blissfully until morning dawned and people began
scurrying about the courtyard. 
 After daybreak when the handsome couple came out of the bedroom, the
countess was already standing at their door, for she was very curious how
their wedding night had progressed. To her great surprise she saw the most
handsome man there instead of an ugly snake. At first she could almost not
believe her eyes. But when the handsome knight called her mother and
kissed her hand she recognized that he was indeed her transformed son, and
her joy knew no bounds. 
 The wedding was now celebrated with jubilation and joy like in the next
life. But their happiness did not last forever. When the old countess
looked at her son and saw how handsome he was, it seemed to her that he
was too good for the hen girl, and she was envious of her daughter-in-law
for her husband. She became ever more out of sorts and jealous, and she
tried to talk her son into rejecting his wife. The young count, however,
loved his wife tenderly. He did not listen to his mother's advice and
remained true to his wife.  
 When his mother again reproached him and tried to convince him to
reject his wife, he said, "I have my wife to thank for my redemption.
Therefore I will always be thankful and true to her." 
 After hearing this the countess recognized that her attempts were in
vain, and she put a good face on her evil game. And the young couple lived
happily for a long, long time. 
 (Orally from Absam)