On the outer wall of the Saint George Church at Mühlhausen one can still see numerous stone monuments that attest to the foundation of the city. Among these is one depicting an amazing legend.  
Ages ago there was a king in Thüringen. One day while hunting, his hounds jumped around a tree in a thicket and could not be held back. He had one of his servants climb up the tree trunk, which was hollow, to see what was inside causing his pack to bark. A small wild man was inside, and the king's men fetched him out. The king was delighted with this wild man and had him sit next to himself in the coach. He forthwith called an end to the hunt.  
He named the captured wild man Noah and confined him in a crypt. The king himself waited on him and cared for him.  
One time when the king had to be away, his son George was playing ball in the castle, and the ball fell down through a hole in the crypt.  
The little prince called down: "Wild man Noah, give me back my ball!"  
The wild man answered: "I cannot give you your ball. If I were to throw it out, it would fly so far that you would never find it. Instead, go into your father's chamber, fetch the key, and open the door for me. Then I will give you your ball."  
The prince fetched the key from his father's chamber, for without the key no one could open the crypt.  
He opened the crypt, and the wild man came out, gave him his ball, and said: "In my need you have helped me, and if you are ever in need just go into the woods and call for me, and I will help you as well."  
Soon afterward the king returned home, and his first step was to look after his wild man. How alarmed he was to discover that the crypt was empty, and he immediately suspected that it was his son who had freed the wild man.  
He summoned him and asked: "George, did you take the key, open the crypt, and let the wild man Noah out?"  
The little prince honestly confessed to what he had done.  
The king at once disowned his prince, for his wild man was dearer to him than anything else. 
The prince sadly left his father's house and wandered aimlessly about in poverty until finally he came upon a shepherd. The shepherd suspected at once that the lad was not from a lower class and took him in. He taught him what he needed to know to help with the herd.  
George the sheepherder came to know a beautiful girl, and as he was now coming of age, he asked her to marry him.  
At that time a terrible beast called a lindorm had taken over the region. It demanded a human sacrifice every year. According to ancient belief, this beast was a magical curse. If it did not receive its sacrifice immediately it roared like a thunderstorm, threatening to destroy everything in the land.  
The time came when the people were called together to draw lots determining who would be the lindorm's next sacrifice. Sheepherder George's bride-to-be drew the losing lot.  
He remembered what the wild man had promised him. He stepped forward and asked that the sacrifice be delayed, for he intended to kill the lindorm. He quickly ran into the woods and called on the wild man Noah for help and support.  
The wild man appeared before him and gave him a white horse and a sword, then told him to put on a white robe, mount the white horse, point his sword foreward, and charge against the monster.  The monster would hungrily open wide its jaws, and George could penetrate its throat with his sword.   
And so it happened. Thus George's bride, as well as the entire land, were freed from the monster. The people cheered with joy, happiness ruled throughout the land, and George was dubbed a knight.  
Everyone now wanted to know more about George's origins. He confessed that he was the king's son and related how he had become a sheepherder. He was told that his father had died, so he could return home safely and assume rule over the kingdom.  
Thus a king's son became a sheepherder, the sheepherder became a knight, and the knight became a king.  
Now that George had taken over the kingdom, he traveled throughout the land familiarizing himself with his realm and seeking adventure. He came to a small settlement surrounding a mill. The community had no church. The young king, wanting to give thanks to God, had a church built in this settlement. The church still carries his name, George, as its founder.  
The builder of the church carved the entire history into a stone monument.  And that is how the city of Mühlhausen had its beginning.