The people of Sainte-Dode always have been considered to be simpletons, and they have often been taken advantage of.  
One day it occurred to the people of Sainte-Dode that they were earning too little with their farming, their wine-growing, and their horse breeding. The people -- men, women, and children -- assembled in front of the church to discuss the matter.  
"People of Sainte-Dode," called out the cleverest of them, "do you want to increase your fortune and at the same time work only half as much?"   
"Yes! Yes!" they all shouted.  
"Listen to what we must do.  I have been told there is a merchant who lives near the the Daurade Church in Toulouse. He has horse seed for sale, but it is very expensive. We will have to buy some. Let us send four capable men to Toulouse to get some for us."  
"He is right! We want some of that horse seed!"  
The four men were soon selected, and they set off at once for Toulouse where they found the merchant's business near the Daurade Church.  
"Good day."  
"Good day, gentlemen."  
"We have been told that you have horse seed for sale here."  
"Gentlemen, that is true, but each seed costs one hundred gold  pistoles .  
"We'll take one. Here is the money."  
From the back room the merchant fetched a pumpkin as large as a barrel. 
"Here, my friends, is my best horse seed.  But listen to what I have to say.  Shake it as little as possible while carrying it home. Be careful not to break it, otherwise the little foal that is inside will run away, and you will have spent your hundred gold  pistoles  for nothing.  
"Many thanks for the warning."  
The four men made their way toward Saint-Dode, and were ever so careful not to break it. They took turns carrying it on their heads.  
Everything went well as far as Aubiet, where they stopped to rest on a steep ledge. While they were catching their breath and taking a drink from their cantines the horse seed rolled over the ledge and broke into pieces against a stone. A hare that was sleeping a few steps away jumped up in fright and ran away.  
"Oh, what misfortune! Our horse seed has been botched. Just see how our  little foal is running away!"  
Beside themselves with grief they arrived in Saint-Dode, where they were greeted with sticks and stones.