In a certain place there lived a large bullock by the name of
Tîkschnabrischana, which means "having substantial balls." Because
of his excessive pride, he left his herd and wandered about in the forest,
tearing up the banks as he pleased and devouring the emerald-colored
grass. 
 In this same forest there lived a jackal by the name of Pralobhaka,
which means "the greedy one." One day he was sitting pleasantly with his
wife on an island in the river. Tîkschnabrischana came up to this
island to have a drink of water. When the jackal's wife saw the balls, she
said to her husband, "Master, just look! This bullock has two pieces of
meat hanging down. They will be falling off immediately, at the least in a
few hours. Take heed of this, and follow him." 
 The jackal answered, "Loved one, there is nothing certain about their
falling off. Why do you ask me to set forth on such a futile task? Let me
stay here with you, and together we can eat the mice that come here to
drink. This is their pathway. If I leave you to follow the bullock, then
someone else will come here and take over this spot. It is not a good
idea, for it is said:  He who gives up a sure thing for an uncertainty
will lose the sure thing, and the uncertainty will remain just
that. " 
 The jackal's wife said, "Oh, you are a low-spirited creature. You are
satisfied with the worst things that you can find. They also say:  It is
easy to fill a little brook and also the paws of a little mouse. Ordinary
people are easily satisfied. They are pleased with the smallest
things.  For this reason a good man must always be active. They also
say:  With every beginning there is a will to act. Avoid idleness, and
join the community of the intelligent and the powerful. Think not that
fate alone rules. Cease not to work. Without effort the sesame seed will
not give up its oil.  And further:  A foolish man is happy with
little. His heart is satisfied just thinking of wealth.  It is thus not
appropriate for you to say, 'It is uncertain, whether or not they will
fall off.' It is also said:  Active people deserve praise. Those with
pride will be praised. What sort of scoundrel will wait until Indra brings
him water?  Furthermore, I am mightily tired of eating mouse meat.
These two pieces of meat look as though they will soon fall off. You must
follow him. Nothing else will do!" 
 After hearing all this, the jackal left his mouse catching, and
followed after Tîkschnabrischana. They rightly say:  A man is
master in all things, until he lets his will be turned by a woman's words.
 And further:  The impossible seems possible, the unachievable easily
achieved, and the inedible edible to the man who is spurred on by a
woman's words. 
 Thus, together with his wife, he followed the bullock a long time,
but the two balls did not fall off.  
 In the fifteenth year, the jackal finally said wearily to his wife,
"Fifteen years, my love, I have kept my eyes on those hanging things to
see whether or not they are going to fall off, but they still hold fast.
Nor will they fall off in the future. Let us return to catching mice!"