The Jataka 
 Once on a time when Brahmadatta was reigning in Benares in Kāsi, 
the Bodhisatta was 
born into the Treasurer's family, and growing up, was made Treasurer, 
being called Treasurer Little. 
A wise and clever man was he, with a keen eye for signs and omens. One day 
on his way to wait 
upon the king, he came on a dead mouse lying on the road; and, taking note 
of the position of the 
stars at that moment, he said, "Any decent young fellow with his wits 
about him has only to pick 
that mouse up, and he might start a business and keep a wife."
 His words were overheard by a young man of good family but reduced 
circumstances, who 
said to himself, "That's a man who has always got a reason for what he 
says." And accordingly he 
picked up the mouse, which he sold for a farthing at a tavern for their 
cat.
 With the farthing he got molasses and took drinking water in a 
waterpot. Coming on flower 
gatherers returning from the forest, he gave each a tiny quantity of the 
molasses and ladled the 
water out to them. Each of them gave him a handful of flowers, with the 
proceeds of which, next 
day, he came back again to the flower grounds provided with more molasses 
and a pot of water. 
That day the flower gatherers, before they went, gave him flowering plants 
with half the flowers left 
on them; and thus in a little while he obtained eight pennies.
 Later, one rainy and windy day, the wind blew down a quantity of rotten 
branches and boughs 
and leaves in the king's pleasaunce, and the gardener did not see how to 
clear them away. Then up 
came the young man with an offer to remove the lot, if the wood and leaves 
might be his. The 
gardener closed with the offer on the spot. Then this apt pupil of 
Treasurer Little repaired to the 
children's playground and in a very little while had got them by bribes of 
molasses to collect every 
stick and leaf in the place into a heap at the entrance to the pleasaunce. 
Just then the king's potter 
was on the look out for fuel to fire bowls for the palace, and coming on 
this heap, took the lot off 
his hands. The sale of his wood brought in sixteen pennies to this pupil 
of Treasurer Little, as well as 
five bowls and other vessels. 
 Having now twenty-four pennies in all, a plan occurred to him. He went 
to the vicinity of the 
city gate with a jar full of water and supplied 500 mowers with water to 
drink. Said they, "You've 
done us a good turn, friend. What can we do for you?" 
 "Oh, I'll tell you when I want your aid," said he; and as he went 
about, he struck up an intimacy 
with a land trader and a sea trader. 
 Said the former to him, "Tomorrow there will come to town a horse 
dealer with 500 horses to 
sell." 
 On hearing this piece of news, he said to the mowers, "I want each of 
you today to give me a 
bundle of grass and not to sell your own grass till mine is sold." 
 "Certainly," said they, and delivered the 500 bundles of grass at his 
house. Unable to get grass 
for his horses elsewhere, the dealer purchased our friend's grass for a 
thousand pieces. 
 Only a few days later his sea-trading friend brought him news of the 
arrival of a large ship in 
port; and another plan struck him. He hired for eight pence a well 
appointed carriage which plied 
for hire by the hour, and went in great style down to the port. Having 
bought the ship on credit and 
deposited his signet ring as security, he had a pavilion pitched hard by 
and said to his people as he 
took his seat inside, "When merchants are being shewn in, let them be 
passed on by three 
successive ushers into my presence." 
 Hearing that a ship had arrived in port, about a hundred merchants came 
down to buy the 
cargo; only to he told that they could not have it as a great merchant had 
already made a payment 
on account. So away they all went to the young man; and the footmen duly 
announced them by 
three successive ushers, as had been arranged beforehand. Each man of the 
hundred severally gave 
him a thousand pieces to buy a share in the ship and then a further 
thousand each to buy him out 
altogether. So it was with 200,000 pieces that this pupil of Treasurer 
Little returned to Benares.  
 Actuated by a desire to shew his gratitude, he went with one hundred 
thousand pieces to call 
on Treasurer Little. "How did you come by all this wealth?" asked the 
Treasurer. 
 "In four short months, simply by following your advice," replied the 
young man; and he told him 
the whole story, starting with the dead mouse. Thought Lord High Treasurer 
Little, on hearing all 
this, "I must see that a young fellow of these parts does not fall into 
anybody else's hands." So he 
married him to his own grownup daughter and settled all the family estates 
on the young man. And 
at the Treasurer's death, he became Treasurer in that city. And the 
Bodhisatta passed away to fare according to his deserts.