At a city there is a certain king; a widow lives at a house near his
palace.  She subsists by going to this royal palace and pounding rice
there; having handed it over, she takes away the rice powders and lives on
it.  
During the time while she was getting a living in this way, she bore a
frog, which she reared there.  When it was grown up, the king of that city
caused this proclamation to be made by beat of tom-toms,  "I will give
half my kingdom, and goods amounting to an elephant's load to the person
who brings the Jeweled Golden Cock that is at the house of the Rakshasi
(ogress).  
The frog took the bundle of rice, and hanging it from his shoulder, went
to an indi (wild date) tree, scraped the leaf off a date spike (the
mid-rib of the leaf), and strung the rice on it.  While going away after
stringing it, the frog then became like a very good-looking royal prince,
and a horse and clothing for him made their appearance there.  Putting on
the clothes he mounted the horse, and making it bound along he went on
till he came to a city.  
Hearing that he had arrived, the king of that city prepared quarters for
this prince to stay at, and having given him ample food and drink, asked,
"Where art thou going?"  
Then the prince said, "The king of our city has made a proclamation by
beat of tom-toms, that he will give half his kingdom and an elephant's
load of gold to the person who brings him the Jeweled Golden Cock that is
at the Rakshasi's house.  Because of it I am going to fetch the Jeweled
Golden Cock."  
The king, being pleased with the prince on account of it, gave him a piece
of charcoal. "Should you be unable to escape from the Rakshasi while
returning after taking the Jeweled Golden Cock, tell this piece of
charcoal to be created a fire-fence, and cast it down," he said.  Taking
it, he went to another city.  
The king of that city in that very manner having prepared quarters, and
made ready and given him food and drink, asked, "Where art thou going?"
The prince replied in the same words, "I am going to bring the Jeweled
Golden Cock that is at the house of the Rakshasi."  That king also being
pleased on account of it, gave him a stone, "Should you be unable to
escape from the Rakshasi, tell this stone to be created a mountain, and
cast it down," he said.  
Taking the charcoal and the stone which those two kings gave him, he went
to yet another city.  The king also in that very manner having given him
quarters, and food and drink, asked, "Where art thou going?"  The prince
in that very way said, "I am going to bring the Jeweled Golden Cock."
That king also being greatly pleased gave him a thorn.  "Should you be
unable to escape from the Rakshasi, tell a thorn fence to be created, and
cast down this thorn," he said.  
On the next day he went to the house of the Rakshasi. She was not at home;
the Rakshasi's daughter was there.  That girl having seen the prince
coming and not knowing him, asked "Elder brother, elder brother, where are
you going?"  
The prince said, "Younger sister, I am not going anywhere whatever.  I
came to beg at your hands the Jeweled Golden Cock which you have got."  
To that she replied, "Elder brother, today indeed I am unable to give it.
Tomorrow I can.  Should my mother come now she will eat you; for that
reason come and hide yourself."  
Calling him into the house, she put him in a large trunk at the bottom of
seven trunks, and shut him up in it.  
After a little time had passed, the Rakshasi came back.  Having come and
seen that the prince's horse was there, she asked her daughter, "Whose is
this horse?"  
Then the Rakshasi's daughter replied, "Nobody's whatever.  It came out of
the jungle, and I caught it to ride on."  
The Rakshasi having said, "If so, it is good," came in.  While lying down
to sleep at night, the sweet odor of the prince having reached the
Rakshasi, she said to her daughter, "What is this,  Bola ?  A smell of a fresh human body is coming to me."  
Then the Rakshasi's daughter said, "What, mother!  Do you say so?  You are
constantly eating fresh bodies; how can there not be an odor of them?"  
After that, the Rakshasi, taking those words for the truth, went to sleep.
 
At dawn on the following day, as soon as she arose, the Rakshasi went to
seek human flesh for food.  After she had gone, the Rakshasa-daughter,
taking out the prince who was shut up in the box, told that prince a.
device on going away with the Jeweled Golden Cock:  "Elder brother, if
you. are going away with the cock, take some cords and fasten them round
my shoulders.  Having put them round me, take the cock, and having mounted
the horse, go off, making him bound quickly.  When you have gone, I shall
cry out.  Mother comes when I give three calls.  After she has come,
loosening me will occupy much time; then you will be able to get away."
 
In the way she said, the prince tied the Rakshasa-daughter, and taking the
Jeweled Golden Cock mounted the horse, and making it bound quickly came
away.  
As that Rakshasa-daughter said, while she was calling out, the Rakshasi
came.  Having come, after she looked about (she found that) the
Rakshasa-daughter was tied, and the Jeweled Golden Cock had been taken
away.  After she had asked, "Who was it?  Who took it?" the
Rakshasa-daughter said, "I don't know who it was."  After that, she very
quickly unfastened the Rakshasa-daughter, and both of them came running to
eat that prince.  
The prince was unable to go quickly.  While going, the prince turned
round, and on looking back saw that this Rakshasi and the
Rakshasa-daughter were coming running to eat that prince.  
After that, he cast down the thorn which the above-mentioned king of the
third city gave him, having told a thorn fence to be created.  A thorn
fence was created.  Having jumped over it, they came on.  
After that, when he had put down the piece of stone which the king of the
second city gave him, and told a mountain to be created a mountain was
created.  They sprang over that mountain also, and came on.  
After that, he cast down the charcoal which the king of the first city
gave him, having told a fire fence to be created. In that very manner, a
fire fence was created.  Having come to it, while jumping over it, both of
them were burnt and died.  
From that place, the prince came along.  While coming, he arrived at the
Indi tree on which he had threaded the rice, and having taken off it all
that dried-up rice, he began to eat it.  On coming to the end of it, the
person who was like that prince again became a frog.  
After he became a frog, the clothes that he was wearing, and the horse,
and the Jeweled Golden Cock vanished.  Out of grief on that account, that
frog died at that very place.