There was a very poor man who had to make arrangements for his child's baptism. But did not know where he was going, nor whom he might find to serve as godparents. At last he met a person who asked him where he was going.  
He was looking for godparents.  
"Then you can just ask me," said the stranger.  
Yes, that would do, but the man wanted to know who the stranger was.  
"I'm the one they call the Devil," he said.  
"No, I do not want you, for you are evil. You only want to hurt people."  
Then the two parted.  
He went on his way again, and someone else approached him. The stranger asked him where he was going.  
He was looking for godparents.  
"Then you can just as well ask me as anyone else."  
Of course he wanted to know who the stranger was.  
He was the one they call Our Lord.  
"No, I do not want you, because you make people different. You make both the poor and the rich, and you do not care."  
Then he went on his way again, thinking: "I must be able to find someone who is suitable for me."  
Then he met a third person, who asked him the same question, and then said: "You can just as well ask me as anyone else."  
He wanted to know who this stranger was. He always had this question.  
He was Death.  
"You are the one I want, for you are an honest man, and no one passes you by. You take everyone with you, both poor and rich.  
Death was was pleased that he had been invited, and he wanted to wish him well.  
"Yes, God help me," said the Man, "but I do not know what I want."  
"Well, for example, you could want to be a Doctor."  
"I do not know about medicine or anything like that."  
"Well, that doesn't matter. I will tell you just one thing. Now you know who I am, and when you are called to the sick and see me sitting at the head of the bed, you must not bother to treat them, for they shall die. However, if am sitted at their feet, they will revover, no matter what you give them."  
So he pretended to be a doctor, and everyone came to him to be cured. He had been very poor before, but now he became wealthy. He was famous, and wherever he went there was no one like him.  
Once he was called on to treat a king from a foreign land who had lain ill for many years. When he came in to the sick man, Death was seated at the head of the bed. Now he did not want the king to die, for he had long since been overcome by the lust for money and fame. So he ordered that the sick king should be turned around, and the king did indeed recover, for Death was now seated at his feet. For this service he got everything he could want, and more.  
Then he returned home, and for a time lived in wealth at his own estate.  
Then Death came to him once more, saying that now he should die.  
He pleaded to be allowed to live a little longer.  
No, that was not possible, for he had deceived Death with the king.  
"May I not be allowed to read the Lord's Prayer before I die?"  
Yes, for it would be a sin to deny him that.  
"Then, in truth, it will be a long time before I read it."  
Now he was on his feet again and could cure as usual. Everyone who came to him was cured.  
However, it was wrong that he could not read the Lord's Prayer. He longed terribly to do so.  
Then one day he met a little herder boy. He asked the boy if he could read something.  
"Only a little," replied the boy. That was not much of an answer.  
Could he read the Lord's Prayer?   
He was not sure.  He had known it, but now he hardly knew if he could still do so.  
So the boy was supposed to read it, but he could not begin. Then the doctor took over and said: "Our father...."  
The boy could not continue, so the doctor had to keep saying the prayer word for word until he came to the end. Then Death suddenly appeared to him again, and this time he had to give up his life. He now had become an old, decrepit man.