There was a village, and the men decided to go on a warpath. So these
men started, and they journeyed for several days toward the south. They
came to a thickly wooded country. They found wild horses, and among them
was a spotted pony.
 One man caught the spotted pony and took care of it. He took it home,
and instructed his wife to look after it, as if it were their chief. This
she did, and, further, she liked the horse very much. She took it where
there was good grass. In the winter time she cut young cottonwood shoots
for it, so that the horse was always fat. In the night, if it was stormy,
she pulled a lot of dry grass, and when she put the blanket over the horse
and tied it up, she stuffed the grass under the blanket, so the horse
never got cold. It was always fine and sleek.
 One summer evening she went to where she had tied the horse, and she
met a fine-looking man, who had on a buffalo robe with a spotted horse
pictured on it. She liked him; he smelt finely.
 She followed him until they came to where the horse had been, and the
man said, "You went with me. It is I who was a horse."
 She was glad, for she liked the horse. For several years they were
together, and the woman gave birth, and it was a spotted pony. When the
pony was born, the woman found she had a tail like that of a horse. She
also had long hair. When the colt sucked, the woman stood up.
 For several years they roamed about, and had more ponies, all spotted.
At home the man mourned for his lost wife. He could not make out why
should go off.
 People went on a hunt many years afterward, and they came across these
spotted ponies. People did not care to attack them, for among them was a
strange looking animal. But, as they came across them now and then, they
decided to catch them. They were hard to catch, but at last they caught
them, all but the woman, for she could run fast; but as they caught her
children, she gave in and was caught.
 People said, "This is the woman who was lost."
 And some said, "No, it is not."
 Her husband was sent for, and he recognized her. He took his bow and
arrows out and shot her dead, for he did not like to see her with the
horse's tail. The other spotted ponies were kept, and as they increased,
they were spotted. So the people had many spotted ponies.