There lived once together a king and a queen, and a princess who was their 
daughter. The princess had worn out every evening seven pairs of slippers 
made of iron; and the king could not make out how that could be, though he 
was always trying to find out. The king at last issued a decree, that 
whosoever should be able to find out how the princess managed to wear out 
seven slippers made of iron in the short space of time between morning and 
evening, he would give the princess in marriage if he were a man, and if a 
woman he would marry her to a prince.   
It happened that a soldier was walking along an open country road carrying 
on his back a sack of oranges, and he saw two men fighting and giving each 
other great blows.   
The soldier went up to them and asked them, "Oh, men, why are you giving 
each other such blows?"   
"Why indeed should it be!" they replied. "Because our father is dead, and 
he has left us this cap, and we both wish to possess it."   
"Is it possible that for the sake of a cap you should be fighting?" 
inquired the soldier.   
The men then said, "The reason is that this cap has a charm, and if any 
one puts it on and says, 'Cap, cover me so that no one shall see me!' no 
one can see us."   
The soldier upon hearing this said to them, "I'll tell you what I can do 
for you; you let me remain here with the cap whilst I throw this orange to 
a great distance, and you run after it, and the one that shall pick it up 
first shall be the possessor of the cap."   
The men agreed to this, and the soldier threw the orange to a great 
distance, as far as he possibly could, whilst the men both ran to pick it 
up. Here the soldier without loss of time put on the cap saying, "Cap, 
make me invisible."   
When the men returned with the orange they could see nothing and nobody. 
The soldier went away with the cap, and further on he met on his road two 
other men fighting, and he said to them, "Oh, foolish men, why do you give 
each other such blows?"   
The men replied, "Indeed, you may well ask why, if it were not that father 
died and left us this pair of boots, and we, each of us, wish to be the 
sole possessor of them."   
The soldier replied, "Is it possible that for the matter of a pair of 
boots you should be fighting thus?"   
And they replying said, "It is because these boots are charmed, and when 
one wishes to go any distance he has only to say, 'Boots take me here or 
there,' wherever one should wish to go, and instantly they convey one to 
any place."   
The soldier said to them, "I will tell you what to do; I will throw an 
orange to a great distance, and you give me the boots to keep; you run for 
the orange, and the first who shall pick it up shall have the pair of 
boots."   
He threw the orange to a great distance and both men ran to catch it. Upon 
this the soldier said, "Cap, make me invisible, boots take me to the 
city!" and when the men returned they missed the boots, and the soldier, 
for he had gone away.   
He arrived at the capital and heard the decree read which the king had 
promulgated, and he began to consider what he had better do in this case. 
"With this cap, and with these boots I can surely find out what the 
princess does to wear out seven pairs of slippers made of iron in one 
night." He went and presented himself at the palace.   
When the king saw him he said, "Do you really know a way of finding out 
how the princess, my daughter, can wear out seven slippers in one night?" 
  
The soldier replied, "I only ask you to let me try."   
"But you must remember," said the king, "that if at the end of three days 
you have not found out the mystery, I shall order you to be put to death." 
  
The soldier to this replied that he was prepared to take the consequences. 
The king ordered him to remain in the palace. Every attention was paid to 
all his wants and wishes, he had his meals with the king at the same 
table, and slept in the princess's room.   
But what did the princess do? She took him a beverage to his bedside and 
gave it to him to drink. This beverage was a sleeping draught which she 
gave him to make him sleep all night. Next morning the soldier had not 
seen the princess do anything, for he had slept very soundly the whole 
night.   
When he appeared at breakfast the king asked him, "Well, did you see 
anything?"   
"Your majesty must know that I have seen nothing whatever."   
The king said, "Look well what you are at, for now there only remains two 
days more for you, or else you die!"   
The soldier replied, "I have not the least misgivings."   
Night came on and the princess acted as before.   
Next morning the king asked him again at breakfast, "Well, have you seen 
anything last night?"   
The soldier replied, "Your majesty must know that I have seen nothing 
whatever."   
"Be careful, then, what you do, only one day more and you die!"   
The soldier replied, "I have no misgivings."   
He then began to think it over. "It is very curious that I should sleep 
all night -- it cannot be from anything else but from drinking the 
beverage which the princess gives me. Leave me alone, I know what I shall 
do; when the princess brings me the cup I shall pretend to drink, but 
shall throw away the beverage."   
The night came and the princess did not fail to bring him the beverage to 
drink to his bedside. The soldier made a pretence to drink it, but instead 
threw it away, and feigned sleep though he was awake. In the middle of the 
night he saw the princess rise up, prepare to go out, and advance towards 
the door to leave.   
What did he do then? He put on the cap, drew on the boots, and said, "Cap 
make me invisible, boots take me wherever the princess goes."   
The princess entered a carriage, and the soldier followed her into the 
carriage and accompanied her. He saw the carriage stop at the seashore. 
The princess then embarked on board a vessel decked with flags.   
The soldier on seeing this said, "Cap, cover me, that I may be invisible," 
and embarked with the princess.   
She reached the land of giants, and when on passing the first sentinel, he 
challenged her with "Who's there?"   
"The Princess of Harmony," she replied.   
The sentinel rejoined, "Pass with your suite."   
The princess looked behind her, and not seeing any one following her she 
said to herself, "The sentinel cannot be in his sound mind; he said 'pass 
with your suite.' I do not see any one."   
She reached the second sentinel, who cried out at the top of his voice, 
"Who's there?"   
"The Princess of Harmony," replied the princess.   
"Pass with your suite," said the sentinel.   
The princess was each time more and more astonished.   
She came to the third sentinel, who challenged her as the others had done, 
"Who's there?"   
"The Princess of Harmony."   
"Pass on with your suite," rejoined the sentinel.   
The princess as before wondered what the man could mean. After journeying 
for a long time the soldier who followed her closely saw the princess 
arrive at a beautiful palace, enter in, and go into a hall for dancing, 
where he saw many giants. The princess sat upon a seat by the side of her 
lover who was a giant. The soldier hid himself under their seat. The band 
struck up, and she rose to dance with the giant, and when she finished the 
dance she had her iron slippers all in pieces. She took them off and 
pushed them under her seat. The soldier immediately took possession of 
them and put them inside his sack.   
The princess again sat down to converse 
with her lover. The band again struck up some dance music and the princess 
rose to dance. When she finished this dance another of her slippers had 
worn out. She took them off and left them under her seat. The soldier put 
these also into his sack. Finally, she danced seven times, and each time 
she danced she tore a pair of slippers made of iron. The soldier kept them 
all in his sack.   
After the ball the princess sat down to converse with her lover; and what 
did the soldier do? He turned their chairs over and threw them both on the 
middle of the floor. They were very much surprised and they searched 
everywhere and through all the houses and could find no one.   
The giants then looked out for a book of fates they had, wherein could be 
seen the course of the winds and other auguries peculiar to their race. 
They called in a black servant to read in the book and find out what was 
the matter.   
The soldier rose up from where he was and said, "Cap, make me invisible." 
He then gave the negro a slap on the face, the negro fell to the ground, 
while he took possession of the book and kept it.   
The time was approaching when the princess must depart and return home, 
and not being able to stay longer she went away. The soldier followed her 
and she returned by the same way she came. She went on board and when she 
reached the city the carriage was already waiting for her.   
The soldier then said, "Boots take me to the palace," and he arrived 
there, took off his clothes, and went to bed.   
When the princess arrived she found everything in her chamber just as she 
left it, and even found the soldier fast asleep.   
In the morning the king said, "Well, soldier, did you see anything 
remarkable last night?"   
"Be it known to your majesty that I saw nothing whatever last night," 
replied the soldier.   
The king then said, "According to what you say, I do not know if you are 
aware that you must die today."   
The soldier replied, "If it is so I must have patience, what else can I 
do?"   
When the princess heard this she rejoiced much. The king then ordered that 
everything for the execution should be prepared before the palace windows. 
When the soldier was proceeding to execution he asked the king to grant 
him a favor for the last time and to send for the princess so that she 
should be present.   
The king gave the desired permission, and the princess was present, when 
he said to her, "Is it true to say that the princess went out at 
midnight?"   
"It is not true," replied the princess.   
"Is it true to say," again asked the soldier, "that the princess entered a 
carriage, and afterwards went on board a vessel and proceeded to a ball 
given in the kingdom of the giants?"   
The princess replied, "It is not true."   
The soldier yet asked her another question, "Is it true that the princess 
tore seven pair of slippers during the seven times she danced?" and then 
he showed her the slippers.   
"There is no truth in all this," replied the princess.   
The soldier at last said to her, "Is it true to say that the princess at 
the end of the ball fell on the floor from her seat, and the giants had a 
book brought to them to see what bewitchery and magic pervaded and had 
taken possession of the house, and which book is here?"   
The princess now said, "It is so."   
The king was delighted at the discovery and happy ending of this affair, 
and the soldier came to live in the palace and married the princess.