The miller of Sandhills had a donkey which had served him well in its
time, but was now too old to work. The miller was a careful man, who did
not believe in feeding useless mouths, so he decided that he would sell
the donkey for the price of its skin.  
 "I do not suppose I shall get very much for the wretched beast," he
said, regarding poor Grayskin as he stood with hanging head in his stall,
"but I shall save the cost of his corn anyhow, and that is always
something."  
 Left alone, Grayskin reflected sadly upon the fate in store for him.
"Such is the way of the world," he thought. "When I was young and hearty
nothing was too good for me. Now I'm old and useless I am to be cast out.
But am I so useless after all? True, I can no longer pull a cart to
market, but I have a magnificent voice still. There must be a place
somewhere for one who can sing as beautifully as I. I'll go to the
Cathedral of St. Gudule in Brussels and offer myself as a chorister."  
 Grayskin lost no time in acting upon his resolve, but left his stable
immediately and set out on the road to Brussels. Passing the burgomaster's
house he saw an old hound sitting disconsolately on the doorstep.  
 "Hallo, friend!" said he. "What is the matter with you? You seem very
sad this morning."  
 "The matter is that I am tired of life," answered the dog. "I'm getting
old and stiff, and I can no longer hunt hares for my master as I used to
do. The result is that I am reckoned good for nothing, and they grudge me
every morsel of food I put into my mouth."  
 "Come, come, cheer up, my friend," said Grayskin. "Never say die! I am
in a similar case to yourself and have just left my master for precisely
the same reason. My plan is to go to the Cathedral of St. Gudule and offer
my services to the master of the choir. If I may say so without conceit, I
have a lovely voice -- one must make the most of one's gifts, you know --
and I ought to be able to command good pay."  
 "Well, if it comes to that," said the dog, "I can sing too. I sang a
lovely song to the moon last night, and if you'll believe me, all the
people in our street opened their windows to listen. I sang for quite an
hour, and I'd have gone on longer if some malicious person, who was no
doubt jealous, had not thrown an old boot at my head."  
 "Excellent," said Grayskin. "Come along with me. You shall sing tenor
and I'll sing bass. We'll make a famous pair."  
 So the dog joined company with Grayskin, and they went on together
towards Brussels.  
 A little farther down the road they saw a cat sitting on the rubbish
heap outside a miserable hovel. The creature was half blind with age and
had a face as long as a fiddle.  
 "Why, what is the matter with you?" asked Grayskin, who had a tender
heart.  
 "Matter enough," said the cat. "I've just been turned out of house and
home, and all because I took a little piece of bacon from the larder. Upon
my honor, it was no bigger than a baby's fist, but they made as much fuss
as though it had been a whole gammon. I was beaten and kicked out to
starve. If I could catch mice as I used to do, it would not matter so
much, but the mice are too quick for me nowadays. They laugh at me.
Nothing remains for me but to die, and I hope it may be soon."  
 "Nonsense," said Grayskin. "You shall live to laugh at all your
troubles. Come along with us and sing in the choir at St. Gudule. Your
voice is a little too thin for my own taste, but you'll make a very good
soprano in a trio. What do you say?"  
 "You give me new hopes," answered the cat. "Of course I'll join you,"
and so the three went on together.  
 Towards nightfall they arrived at a farmyard, on the gate of which a
cock was crowing lustily.  
 "Hall!" said Grayskin. "What's all this about?"  
 "I am singing my last song on earth," said the cock. "An hour ago I
sang a song, although it is not my usual custom to crow in the afternoon,
and as I ended I heard the farmer's wife say, 'Hearken to Chanticleer.
He's crowing for fine weather tomorrow. I wonder if he'd crow so loudly if
he knew that we had guests coming, and that he was going into the pot to
make their soup!' She has a horrid laugh, that woman. I have always hated
her!"  
 "And do you mean to tell me," said Grayskin, "that you are going to
stay here quite contentedly till they come to wring your neck?"  
 "What else can I do?" asked Chanticleer.  
 "Join us and turn your talents to account. We are all beautiful singers
and we are going to Brussels to offer ourselves as choristers at St.
Gudule. We were a trio before. With you we shall be a quartet, and that's
one better!"  
 Chanticleer was only too glad to find a means of escape, so he
willingly joined the party, and they once more took the road.  
 A little while afterwards they came to a thick wood, which was the
haunt of a notorious band of robbers. There they decided to rest for the
night, so Grayskin and the dog lay down beneath the shelter of a large
beech tree, while the cat climbed onto one of the branches, and
Chanticleer perched himself at the very top. From this lofty post he could
see over the whole wood, and it was not long before he espied a light
twinkling among the trees not far away.  
 "There must be a house of some sort over there," he said to his
companions. "Shall we go and see? We may find something to eat."  
 "Or some straw to lie upon, at any rate," said Grayskin. "This damp
ground gives me rheumatics in my old bones."  
 "I was just thinking the same thing," said the dog. "Let us go."  
 So the four choristers, led by the cock, walked in the direction from
which the light came, and before long they found themselves in front of a
little house, the windows of which were brilliantly lighted. In order to
reach to the windows the animals made a tower of their bodies, with
Grayskin at the bottom and Chanticleer at the top.  
 Now this house was the abode of a band of robbers, who, at that very
moment, were seated before a table laden with all kinds of food. There
they sat and feasted, and poor Chanticleer's mouth watered as he watched
them.  
 "Is there anybody inside?" asked the dog, who was impatient.  
 "Hush!" said Chanticleer. "Men! They're eating their dinner!"  
 "I wish I was," said the dog. "What are they eating?"  
 "All sorts of things -- sausage and fish ...."  
 "Sausage!" said the dog.  
 "Fish!" said the cat.  
 "And ever so many other delicacies," Chanticleer went on. "Look here,
friends. Wouldn't it be a fine thing if we could get a share of their
meal? I confess that my stomach aches with hunger."  
 "And mine too," said the dog. "I've never been so hungry in my life.
But how are we to get the food?"  
 "Let us serenade them, and perhaps they'll throw us something as a
reward," said Grayskin. "Music, you know, has charms to soothe the savage
breast."  
 This seemed such a good idea that the choristers lost no time in
putting it into execution. All four began to sing. They donkey hee-hawed,
the dog howled, the cat meowed, and the cock crowed. From the noise they
made one would have thought that the heavens were falling.  
 The effect of this marvelous quartet upon the robbers was
instantaneous. Leaping from their seats, they ran from place to place in
mortal terror, tumbling over one another, oversetting chairs and adding to
the racket by their shrieks and cries. At that moment the cock fell
against the window, breaking the glass to smithereens. The donkey gave the
frame a push, and all the four precipitated themselves into the room.  
 This was the last straw. The robbers could stand no more. Half mad with
fear they rushed to the door and fled into the forest.  
 Then our four choristers drew up to the table and set to work upon the
food with which it was laden. Their long walk had given them a good
appetite, so that there was little left by the time they had finished.
Feeling drowsy after their meal, they then settled themselves to sleep.
The donkey made himself a bed on a heap of straw in the yard; the dog
stretched himself out upon the mat by the house door; the cat lay among
the warm cinders on the hearth; and the cock perched upon the rooftop. A
few minutes more and they were all fast asleep.  
 Meanwhile the robbers, who had retreated some distance into the forest,
waited anxiously for something dreadful to happen. An hour passed by and
there was neither sight nor sound to alarm them, so they began to feel a
little ashamed of their cowardice. Creeping stealthily nearer to the
cottage, they saw that everything was still, and that no light was showing
from the windows.  
 At last the robber chief sent his lieutenant to spy out the land, and
this man, returning to the cottage without mishap, found his way into the
kitchen and proceeded to light a candle. He had no matches, but he saw two
sparks of fire among the cinders on the hearth, so he went forward to get
a light from them.  
 Now this light came from the cat's eyes, and as soon as puss felt the
robber touch her, she sprang up, snarling and spitting, and scratched his
face. With a scream of terror, he dropped his candle and rushed for the
door, and as he passed, the dog bit him in the leg. By this time the noise
had awakened Grayskin, who got upon his feet just as the man ran by, and
helped him forward with a might kick, which sent him flying out into the
roadway. Seeing this, the cock on the housetop spread his wings and crowed
in triumph, "Cock-a-doodle-doo!"  
 I wish you could have seen the way that robber ran! He covered the
ground so quickly that he seemed like a flying shadow, and I am perfectly
certain that not even a hare could have overtaken him. At last, panting
for breath, he rejoined his comrades in the forest, who were eagerly
awaiting his return.  
 "Well," cried the chief, "is the way clear? Can we go back?"  
 "Not on any account," cried the robber. "There's a horrible witch in
the kitchen. Directly I entered she sprang at me and tore my face with her
long claws, calling out at the same time to her creatures to come and
devour me. As I ran through the door, one of them buried his fangs in my
leg, and a little farther on, in the yard, a great black monster struck at
me with an enormous club, giving me a blow that nearly broke my backbone.
On the roof a little demon with wings and eyes that shone like coals of
fire cried, 'Stop him! Eat him! Stop him! Eat him!' You may guess that I
did not wait for more. It is a miracle that I have escaped with my life!"
 
 When they heard this terrible story the robbers lost no time in
decamping, and such was their terror that they deserted the forest
altogether and went away to another part of the country. The result was
that our four friends were left to dwell in the cottage, where they lived
happily for the rest of their lives, and as they had now everything they
wanted, they quite gave up their idea of going to St. Gudule.