In the days long gone by there lived in Helgonabacken -- the Hills of
Helgona -- near Lund, a family of giants who one day heard, with great
anxiety and consternation, that a holy man had come into the country, from
Saxony, to build a church to the White Christ. 
 While Laurentius, such was the holy man's name, was selecting his site
and laying out the plans for the temple, there stood at his side, one day,
none other than Finn, the giant of Helgonabacken, who thus addressed him,
"Truly the White Christ is a God worthy of such a temple, and I will build
it for you, if, when it is finished, you will tell me what my name is.
But, mark well my condition, oh, wise man: If you cannot tell me, you must
give to my little ones the two small torches -- the sun and the moon --
that travel yonder over heaven's expanse." 
 Now, it is so ordered in the giant world that it is of vital importance
the name of the giant should be kept from mankind. Should it be revealed,
the giant must die, and man is freed from all obligations that may have
been imposed upon him by compact with the giant. 
 Laurentius could not reasonably promise so much, but anxious to have
the church built, he offered, instead, his eyes, trusting to fortune to
discover to him the giant's name before the completion of the church. The
giant, satisfied with the bargain, entered at once upon his work, and with
wonderful rapidity the church grew upward. Soon there remained nothing
more to complete it than to set one stone on the tower. 
 The day preceding that on which it was expected this last stone would
be put in place, Laurentius stood on Helgonabacken in deep melancholy. It
seemed inevitable that he must lose his eyes, and that he was now taking
his last look at the light of heaven and all that had made the world and
life so attractive to him. Next day all would be darkness and sorrow.
During these gloomy reflections he heard the cry of a child from within
the hill, and the voice of the giant mother endeavoring to quiet it with a
song, in which he clearly distinguished the words, "Silent, silent, little
son of mine. Morning will bring your father Finn, with either moon and sun
or the priest Laurentius' eyes." 
 Beside himself with joy, Laurentius hastened to the church. "Come down,
Finn!" he cried. "The stone that now remains we ourselves can set. Come
down, Finn, for we no longer need your help!" 
 Foaming with rage, the giant rushed from the tower to the ground, and
laying hold of one of the pillars tried to pull the church down. At this
instant his wife with her child joined him. She, too, grasped a pillar and
would help her husband in the work of destruction, but just as the
building was tottering to the point of falling, they were both turned to
stones, and there they lie today, each embracing a pillar.