Seven men of Buneyr once left their native wilds for the purpose of
seeking their fortunes. When evening came they all sat down under a tree
to rest, when one of them said, "Let us count to see if we are all here."
So he counted, "One, two, three, four, five, six," but, quite omitting to
reckon himself, he exclaimed, "There's one of us missing, we are only
six!" 
 "Nonsense!" cried the others, and the whole company of seven began
counting with uplifted forefingers, but they all forgot to count
themselves. 
 Fearing some evil, they now rose up, and at once set out to search for
their missing comrade. Presently they met a shepherd, who greeted them
civilly and said, "Friends, why are you in such low spirits?" 
 "We have lost one of our party," answered they; "we started this
morning seven in number, and now we are only six. Have you seen any one of
us hereabouts?" 
 "But," said the shepherd, "seven you are, for I have found your lost
companion; behold: one, two, three, four, five, six,  seven! " 
 "Ah," answered the wise men of Buneyr, "you have indeed found our
missing brother. We owe you a debt of gratitude. Because you have done us
this service, we insist on doing a month's free labor for you." 
 So the shepherd, overjoyed with his good fortune, took the men home
with him. 
 Now, the shepherd's mother was a very old woman, in her dotage, utterly
feeble and unable to help herself. When the morning came he placed her
under the care of one of the Buneyris, saying to him, "You will stay here
and take care of my old mother." 
 To another Buneyri he said, "You take out my goats, graze them on the
hills by day, and watch over them by night." 
 To the other five he said, "As for you, I shall have work for you
tomorrow." 
 The man who was left in charge of the old crippled mother found that
his time was fully occupied in the constant endeavor to drive off the
innumerable flies which in that hot season kept her in a state of
continual excitement and irritation. When, however, he saw that all his
efforts were fruitless, and that he flapped the wretches away in vain, he
became desperate, and, lifting up a large stone, he aimed it deliberately
at a certain fly which had settled on the woman's face. Hurling it with
all his might, he of course missed the fly, but, alas! he knocked the
woman prone on her back. When the shepherd saw this he wrung his hands in
despair. "Ah," cried he, "what has your stupidity done for me? The fly has
escaped, but as for my poor old mother, you have killed her dead." 
 Meanwhile, the second Buneyri led his flock of goats up and down among
the hills, and when midday came he rested to eat his bread, while many of
the assembled goats lay down beside him. As he was eating he began to
observe how the goats were chewing the cud and occasionally looking at him
So he foolishly imagined that they were mocking him, and waxed wroth.
"So," cried he, "because I am taking my food, you must needs crowd round
and make game of me, must you?" And, seizing his hatchet, he made a sudden
rush at the poor animals, and he had already struck off the heads of
several of them, when the shepherd came running to the spot, bemoaning his
bad luck and crying to the fellow to desist from slaughter. 
 That night was a sorrowful one for the trustful shepherd, and bitterly
he repented his rashness. In the morning the remaining five wise men of
Buneyr came to him, and said, "It is now our turn. Give us some work to
do, too!" 
 "No, no, my friends," answered he; "you have amply repaid me for the
trifling favor I did for you in finding your missing companion; and now,
for God's sake, go your way and let me see you no more." 
 Hearing these words, the wise men of Buneyr resumed their journey.