There was a married woman in Ephesus of such famous virtue that she
drew women even from the neighboring states to gaze upon her. 
 So when she had buried her husband, the common fashion of following the
procession with loose hair, and beating the naked breast in front of the
crowd, did not satisfy her. She followed the dead man even to his resting
place, and began to watch and weep night and day over the body, which was
laid in an underground vault in the Greek fashion. Neither her parents nor
her relations could divert her from thus torturing herself, and courting
death by starvation. The officials were at last rebuffed and left her.
Everyone mourned for her as a woman of unique character, and she was now
passing her fifth day without food. A devoted maid sat by the failing
woman, shed tears in sympathy with her woes, and at the same time filled
up the lamp, which was placed in the tomb, whenever it sank. 
 There was but one opinion throughout the city, every class of person
admitting this was the one true and brilliant example of chastity and
love. 
 At this moment the governor of the province gave orders that some
robbers should be crucified near the small building where the lady was
bewailing her recent loss. So on the next night, when the soldier who was
watching the crosses, to prevent anyone taking down a body for burial,
observed a light shining plainly among the tombs, and heard a mourner's
groans, a very human weakness made him curious to know who it was and what
he was doing. So he went down into the vault, and on seeing a very
beautiful woman, at first halted in confusion, as if he had seen a portent
or some ghost from the world beneath. But afterwards noticing the dead man
lying there, and watching the woman's tears and the marks of her nails on
her face, he came to the correct conclusion, that she found her regret for
the lost one unendurable. 
 He therefore brought his supper into the tomb, and began to urge the
mourner not to persist in useless grief, and break her heart with
unprofitable sobs: for all men made the same end and found the same
resting place, and so on with the other platitudes which restore wounded
spirits to health. But she took no notice of his sympathy, struck and tore
her breast more violently than ever, pulled out her hair, and laid it on
the dead body. 
 Still the soldier did not retire, but tried to give the poor woman food
with similar encouragements, until the maid, who was no doubt seduced by
the smell of his wine, first gave in herself, and put out her hand at his
kindly invitation, and then, refreshed with food and drink, began to
assail her mistress's obstinacy, and say, "What will you gain by all this,
if you faint away with hunger, if you bury yourself alive, if you breathe
out your undoomed soul before fate calls for it?  Believest thou that
the ashes or the spirit of the buried dead can feel thy woe?  [Virgil,
 Æneid , iv, 34.] Will you not begin life afresh? Will you not
shake off this womanish failing, and enjoy the blessings of the light so
long as you are allowed? Your poor dead husband's body here ought to
persuade you to keep alive." 
 People are always ready to listen when they are urged to take a meal or
to keep alive. So the lady, being thirsty after several days' abstinence,
allowed her resolution to be broken down, and filled herself with food as
greedily as the maid, who had been the first to yield. 
 Well, you know which temptation generally assails a man on a full
stomach. The soldier used the same insinuating phrases which had persuaded
the lady to consent to live, to conduct an assault upon her virtue. Her
modest eye saw in him a young man, handsome and eloquent. 
 The maid begged her to be gracious, and then said, "Wilt thou fight
love even when love pleases thee? Or dost thou never remember in whose
lands thou art resting?" [Virgil,  Æneid , iv, 38.] 
 I need hide the fact no longer. The lady ceased to hold out, and the
conquering hero won her over entire. So they passed not only their wedding
night together, but the next and a third, of course shutting the door of
the vault, so that any friend or stranger who came to the tomb would
imagine that this most virtuous lady had breathed the last over her
husband's body. Well, the soldier was delighted with the woman's beauty,
and his stolen pleasure. He bought up all the fine things his means
permitted, and carried them to the tomb the moment darkness fell. 
 So the parents of one of the crucified, seeing that the watch was
ill-kept, took their man down in the dark and administered the last rite
to him. The soldier was eluded while he was off duty, and next day, seeing
one of the crosses without its corpse, he was in terror of punishment, and
explained to the lady what had happened. He declared that he would not
wait for a court-martial, but would punish his own neglect with a thrust
of his sword. So she had better get ready a place for a dying man, and let
the gloomy vault enclose both her husband and her lover. 
 The lady's heart was tender as well as pure. "Heaven forbid," she
replied, "that I should look at the same moment on the dead bodies of two
men whom I love. No, I would rather make a dead man useful, than send a
live man to death." 
 After this speech she ordered her husband's body to be taken out of the
coffin and fixed up on the empty cross. The soldier availed himself of
this far-seeing woman's device, and the people wondered the next day by
what means the dead man had ascended the cross.