At the time when present-day Leipzig was represented by only a dark grove of shady linden trees, in a high castle in the vicinity there lived an aged king with his daughter. A prosperous village lay at the foot of the mountain. He owned all the surrounding land, as far as the eye could see.  
He should have been happy, but he had no peace, for a terrible lindorm housed near the village. In order to pacify it they had to give it two sheep every day. After emptying their stalls they were forced to sacrifice a human to it every day. Everyone had to submit to the lottery: rich and poor, old and young, male and female. There were no exceptions.  
One day the lot fell to the beautiful princess. They were about to lead her out to the dragon, when a handsome youth appeared, mounted high on his horse, wearing silver armour, and carrying richly decorated weaponry. It was the knight Saint George.  
The dragon confronted him angrily in order to claim its prey, but Saint George drove his lance into its side. This happened near the present-day Saint Thomas Church courtyard. Above the door of a neighboring house one can still see a painted depiction of the knight battling the dragon.  
The lance was sharp, but it did not kill the monster outright. Bellowing with pain  and lashing about with its dreadful tail, it crawled toward the village. The knight pursued, looking for an opportunity to strike a fatal blow. Suddenly his horse shied back, for it had lost a shoe and its hoof was bleeding. This happened at the present-day  Ritterstraße  [Knight-Street], which was named after Saint George.   
The knight spurred his horse onward and overtook the dragon in the vicinity of the present-day  Georgenhaus  [George House], which was also named after him. He leaped from his horse and with his sword slit open the dragon's body.  
Everyone shouted for joy, and the happy king offered to grant him any wish, but the knight requested only that a farrier come and fit his horse with a new shoe. When this had happened, he rode away.  
To memorialize this event the king had the lost horseshoe nailed to a linden tree. When the tree was felled at the founding of the city, the horseshoe was moved to the Saint Nicholas Church, where is still on display.