There was once a widower who had a daughter. This daughter was between
ten and twelve years old. Her father sent her to school, and as she was
all alone in the world commended her always to her teacher. Now, the
teacher, seeing that the child had no mother, fell in love with the
father, and kept saying to the girl, "Ask your father if he would like me
for a wife."
 This she said to her every day, and at last the girl said, "Papa, the
school-mistress is always asking me if you will marry her."
 The father said, "Eh! my daughter, if I take another wife, you will
have great troubles."
 But the girl persisted, and finally the father was persuaded to go one
evening to the school-mistress' house. When she saw him she was well
pleased, and they settled the marriage in a few days. Poor child! How
bitterly she had to repent having found a stepmother so ungrateful and
cruel to her! She sent her every day out on a terrace to water a pot of
basil, and it was so dangerous that if she fell she would go into a large
river.
 One day there came by a large eagle, and said to her, "What are you
doing her?" She was weeping because she saw how great the danger was of
falling into the stream. The eagle said to her, "Get on my back, and I
will carry you away, and you will be happier than with your new mamma."
 After a long journey they reached a great plain, where they found a
beautiful palace all of crystal; the eagle knocked at the door and said,
"Open, my ladies, open! for I have brought you a pretty girl." When the
people in the palace opened the door, and saw that lovely girl, they were
amazed, and kissed and caressed her. Meanwhile the door was closed, and
they remained peaceful and contended.
 Let us return to the eagle, who thought she was doing a spite to the
stepmother. One day the eagle flew away to the terrace where the
stepmother was watering the basil. "Where is your daughter?" asked the
eagle.
 "Eh!" she replied, "perhaps she fell from this terrace and went into
the river; I have not heard from her in ten days."
 The eagle answered, "What a fool you are! I carried her away; seeing
that you treated her so harshly I carried her away to my fairies, and she
is very well." Then the eagle flew away.
 The stepmother, filled with rage and jealousy, called a witch from the
city, and said to her, "You see my daughter is alive, and is in the house
of some fairies of an eagle which often comes upon my terrace; now you
must do me the favor to find some way to kill this stepdaughter of mine,
for I am afraid that some day or other she will return, and my husband,
discovering this matter, will certainly kill me."
 The witch answered, "Oh, you need not be afraid of that; leave it to
me."
 What did the witch do? She had made a little basketful of sweetmeats,
in which she put a charm; then she wrote a letter, pretending that it was
her father, who, having learned where she was, wished to make her this
present, and the letter pretended that her father was so glad to hear that
she was with the fairies.
 Let us leave the witch who is arranging all this deception, and return
to Ermellina (for so the young girl was named). The fairies had said to
her, "See, Ermellina, we are going away, and shall be absent four days;
now in this time take good care not to open the door to anyone, for some
treachery is being prepared for you by your stepmother."
 She promised to open the door to no one: "Do not be anxious, I am well
off, and my stepmother has nothing to do with me."
 But it was not so. The fairies went away, and the next day when
Ermellina was alone, she heard a knocking at the door, and said to
herself, "Knock away! I don't open to anyone."
 But meanwhile the blows redoubled, and curiosity forced her to look out
of the window. What did she see? She saw one the servant girls of her own
home (for the witch had disguised herself as one of her father's
servants). "O my dear Ermellina," she said, "your father is shedding tears
of sorrow for you, because he really believed you were dead, but the eagle
which carried you off came and told him the good news that you were here
with the fairies. Meanwhile your father, not knowing what civility to show
you, for he understands very well that you are in need of nothing, has
thought to send you this little basket of sweetmeats."
 Ermellina had not yet opened the door; the servant begged her to come
down and take the basket and the letter, but she said, "No, I wish
nothing!" but finally, since women, and especially young girls, are fond
of sweetmeats, she descended and opened the door. When the witch had given
her the basket, she said, "Eat this," and broke off for her a piece of the
sweetmeats which she had poisoned. When Ermellina took the first mouthful
the old woman disappeared. Ermellina had scarcely time to close the door,
when she fell down on the stairs.
 When the fairies returned they knocked at the door, but no one opened
it for them; then they perceived that there had been some treachery, and
began to weep. Then the chief of the fairies said, "We must break open the
door," and so they did, and saw Ermellina dead on the stairs.
 Her other friends who loved her so dearly begged the chief of the
fairies to bring her to life, but she would not, "for," she said, "she has
disobeyed me." But one and the other asked her until she consented; she
opened Ermellina's mouth, took out a piece of the sweetmeat which she had
not yet swallowed, raised her up, and Ermellina came to life again.
 We can imagine what a pleasure it was for her fiends; but the chief of
the fairies reproved her for her disobedience, and she promised not to do
so again.
 Once more the fairies were obliged to depart. Their chief said,
"Remember, Ermellina: The first time I cured you, but the second I will
have nothing to do with you."
 Ermellina said they need not worry, that she would not open to anyone.
But it was not so; for the eagle, thinking to increase her stepmother's
anger, told her again that Ermellina was alive. The stepmother denied it
all to the eagle, but she summoned anew the witch, and told her that her
stepdaughter was still alive, saying, "Either you will really kill her, or
I will be avenged on you."
 The old woman, finding herself caught, told her to buy a very handsome
dress, one of the handsomest she could find, and transformed herself into
a tailoress belonging to the family, took the dress, departed, went to
poor Ermellina, knocked at the door and said, "Open, open, for I am your
tailoress."
 Ermellina looked out of the window and saw her tailoress; and was, in
truth, a little confused (indeed, anyone would have been so).
 The tailoress said, "Come down, I must fit a dress on you."
 She replied, "No, no; for I have been deceived once."
 "But I am not the old woman," replied the tailoress, "you know me, for
I have always made your dresses."
 Poor Ermellina was persuaded, and descended the stairs; the tailoress
took to flight while Ermellina was yet buttoning up the dress, and
disappeared. Ermellina closed the door, and was mounting the stairs; but
it was not permitted her to go up, for she fell down dead.
 Let us return to the fairies, who came home and knocked at the door;
but what good did it do to knock! There was no longer anyone there. They
began to weep. The chief of the fairies said, "I told you that she would
betray me again; but now I will have nothing more to do with her."
 So they broke open the door, and saw the poor girl with the beautiful
dress on; but she was dead. They all wept, because they really loved her.
But there was nothing to do; the chief struck her enchanted wand, and
commanded a beautiful rich casket all covered with diamonds and other
precious stones to appear; then the others made a beautiful garland of
flowers and gold, put it on the young girl, and then laid her in the
casket, which was so rich and beautiful that it was marvelous to behold.
Then the old fairy struck her wand as usual and commanded a handsome
horse, the like of which not even the king possessed. Then they took the
casket, put it on the horse's back, and led him into the public square of
the city, and the chief of the fairies said, "Go, and do not stop until
you find someone who says to you, 'Stop, for pity's sake, for I have lost
my horse for you.'"
 Now let us leave the afflicted fairies, and turn our attention to the
horse, which ran away at full speed. Who happened to pass at that moment?
The son of a king (the name of this king is not known); and saw this horse
with that wonder on its back. Then the king began to spur his horse, and
rode him so hard that he killed him, and had to leave him dead in the
road; but the king kept running after the other horse. The poor king could
endure it no longer; he saw himself lost, and exclaimed, "Stop, for pity's
sake, for I have lost my horse for you!"
 Then the horse stopped (for those were the words). When the king saw
that beautiful girl dead in the casket, he thought no more about his own
horse, but took the other to the city. The king's mother knew that her son
had gone hunting; when she saw him returning with this loaded horse, she
did not know what to think. The son had no father, wherefore he was all
powerful. He reached the palace, had the horse unloaded, and the casket
carried to his chamber; then he called his mother and said, "Mother, I
went hunting, but I have found a wife."
 "But what is it? A doll? A dead woman?"
 "Mother," replied her son, "don't trouble yourself about what it is, it
is my wife."
 His mother began to laugh, and withdrew to her own room (what could she
do, poor mother?).
 Now this poor king no longer went hunting, took no diversion, did not
even go to the table, but ate in his own room. By a fatality it happened
that war was declared against him, and he was obliged to depart. He called
his mother, and said, "Mother, I wish two careful chambermaids, whose
business it shall be to guard this casket; for if on my return I find that
anything has happened to my casket, I shall have the chambermaids killed."
 His mother, who loved him, said, "Go, my son, fear nothing, for I
myself will watch over your casket."
 He wept several days at being obliged to abandon this treasure of his,
but there was no help for it, he had to go. After his departure he did
nothing but commend his wife (so he called her) to his mother in his
letters.
 Let us return to the mother, who no longer thought about the matter,
not even to have the casket dusted; but all at once there came a letter
which informed her that the king had been victorious, and should return to
his palace in a few days. The mother called the chambermaids, and said to
them, "Girls, we are ruined."
 They replied, "Why, Highness?"
 "Because my son will be back in a few days, and how have we taken care
of the doll?"
 They answered, "True, true; now let us go and wash the doll's face."
 They went to the king's room and saw that the doll's face and hands
were covered with dust and fly specks, so they took a sponge and washed
her face, but some drops of water fell on her dress and spotted it. The
poor chambermaids began to weep, and went to the queen for advice.
 The queen said, "Do you know what to do! Call a tailoress, and have a
dress precisely like this bought, and take off this one before my son
comes."
 They did so, and the chambermaids went to the room and began to
unbutton the dress. The moment that they took off the first sleeve,
Ermellina opened her eyes. The poor chambermaids sprang up in terror, but
one of the most courageous said, "I am a woman, and so is this one; she
will not eat me."
 To cut the matter short, she took off thee dress, and when it was
removed Ermellina began to get out of the casket to walk about and see
where she was. The chambermaids fell on their knees before her and begged
her to tell them who she was. She, poor girl, told them the whole story.
Then she said, "I wish to know where I am."
 Then the chambermaids called the king's mother to explain it to her.
The mother did not fail to tell her everything, and she, poor girl, did
nothing but weep penitently, thinking of what the fairies had done for
her.
 The king was on the point of arriving, and his mother said to the doll,
"Come her; put on one of my best dresses." In short, she arrayed her like
a queen. Then came her son. They shut the doll up in a small room, so that
she could not be seen. The king came with great joy, with trumpets
blowing, and banners flying for the victory. But he took no interest in
all this, and ran at once to his room to see the doll; the chambermaids
fell on their knees before him saying that the doll smelled so badly that
they could not stay in the palace, and were obliged to bury her.
 The king would not listen to this excuse, but at once called two of the
palace servants to erect the gallows. His mother comforted him in vain:
"My son, it was a dead woman."
 "No, no, I will not listen to any reasons; dead or alive, you should
have left it for me."
 Finally, when his mother saw that he was in earnest about the gallows,
she rang a little bell, and there cam forth no longer the doll, but a very
beautiful girl, whose like was never seen. The king was amazed, and said,
"What is this!"
 Then his mother, the chambermaids, and Ermellina were obliged to tell
him all that had happened.
 He said, "Mother, since I adored her when dead, and called her my wife,
now I mean her to be my wife in truth."
 "Yes, my son," replied his mother, "do so, for I am willing."
 They arranged the wedding, and in a few days were man and wife.