A bear and a fox had once bought between them a tub of butter, which
they intended to keep till Christmas, and, therefore, hid it under a thick pine
bush. They then went a little distance and lay down on a sunny bank to
sleep.   
When they had lain some time, the fox started up and cried out,
"Yes," and ran away towards the butter tub, out of which he ate a good
third. When he returned the bear asked him where he had been, as he looked
so greasy about the mouth.  
 He said, "What do you think of my being invited to a christening?" 
 "Oh, indeed! What is the name of the child?" asked the bear. 
 "Begun Upon," answered the fox. 
 Thereupon they lay down to sleep again. In a little while the fox
sprang up again and cried out, "Yes," and ran to the butter tub. This time
he also ate a good portion. When he came back, and the bear again asked
where he had been, he answered, "Oh, would you believe it? I have again
been invited to a christening." 
 "What is the name of the child?" asked the bear. 
 "Half Eaten," answered the fox. 
 The bear thought that was a strange name, though he did not wonder long
about it, but gave a gape and went to sleep again. They had not lain long
when the same took place as before. The fox sprang up and cried out,
"Yes," and ran to the butter tub, and this time he ate the remainder. When
he came back, he had been once more to a christening, and when the bear
inquired the name of the child, he answered, "Licked to the Bottom!" 
 They now lay down and slept a long time. 
 At length they agreed to go and look after their butter, and when they
found it all eaten up, the bear accused the fox, and the fox accused the
bear, of having eaten it. One said that the other must have been to the
butter tub while he slept. 
 "Well, well!" said Reynard. "We shall soon see which of us two has
stolen the butter. Let us both now lie down on this sunny bank, and the
one whose tail is the greasiest when we wake, must be the one who has
stolen it." 
 The bear was willing to undergo the ordeal. So, feeling conscious of
his innocence, and that he had not even tasted the butter, he lay down to
have a good sound sleep in the sun. But Reynard, instead of sleeping,
crept softly to the butter tub, and got a little that still remained
between the staves. Then sneaking gently back to the bear, he rubbed his
tail with it, and lay down to sleep as if nothing had happened. When they
both woke, the sun had melted the butter on the bear's tail, so that he
was proved to be the one that had eaten the butter.