Notes on the Folk-Lore of the North-East of Scotland
 
 
"The fair folk" were most covetous of new-born children and their mothers.
Till
the mothers were "sained" and churched, and the children were baptized,
the most
strict watch and ward had to be kept over them to keep them from being
stolen. 
Every seven years they had to pay "the teind to hell," and to save them
from
paying this tribute with one of themselves they were ever on the alert to
get
hold of human infants. 
 
There came a wind oot o' the north, 
A sharp wind and a snell; 
And a dead sleep came over me, 
And frae my horse I fell; 
The Queen of Fairies she was there, 
And took me to hersel.
 
And never would I tire, Janet, 
In fairyland to dwell, 
But aye, at every seven years 
They pay the teind to hell; 
And though the Queen macks much o' me 
I fear 'twill be mysel. 
 
Sometimes they succeeded in carrying off an unbaptized infant, and for it
they
left one of their own.  The one left by them soon began to "dwine," and to
fret
and cry night and day.  At times the child has been saved from them as
they were
carrying it through the dog-hole. 
A fisherman had a fine thriving baby.  One day what looked like a beggar
woman
entered the house.  She went to the cradle in which the baby was lying,
and
handled it under pretense of admiring it.  From that day the child did
nothing
but fret and cry and waste away.   
This had gone on for some months, when one day a beggar man entered asking
alms.
 As he was getting his alms his eye lighted upon the infant in the cradle. 
After looking on it for some time he said, "That's nae a bairn; that's an
image;
the bairn's been stoun."  He immediately set to work to bring back the
child. 
He heaped up a large fire on the hearth, and ordered a black hen to be
brought
to him.  When the fire was blazing at its full strength, he took the hen
and
held her over the fire as near it as possible, so as not to kill her.  The
bird
struggled for a little, then escaped from the man's grasp, and flew out by
the
"lum."  The child was restored, and throve every day afterwards. 
Another.  A strong healthy boy in the parish of Tyrie began to "dwine."
The
real baby had been stolen.  A wise woman gave the means of bringing him
back. 
His clothes were to be taken to a south-running well, washed, laid out to
dry
beside the well, and most carefully watched.  This was done for some time,
but
no one came to take them away.  The next thing to be done was to take the
child
himself and lay him between two furrows in a cornfield.  This was carried
out,
and the child throve daily afterwards. All this was annoying to the "fair
folk,"
and rather than submit to such annoyance they restored the child, and took
back
their own one. 
One day a fisherwoman with her baby was left a-bed alone, when in came a
little
man dressed in green.  He proceeded at once to lay hold of the baby.  The
woman
knew at once who the little man was and what he intended to do.  She
uttered the
prayer, "God be atween you an me."  Out rushed the fairy in a moment, and
the
woman and her baby were left without further molestation.