A Mortal distemper once raged among the beasts, and swept away prodigious numbers. After it had continued some time without abatement, it was concluded in an assembly of the brute creation to be a judgment inflicted upon them for their sins, and a day was appointed for a general confession; when it was agreed, that he who appeared to be the greatest sinner, should suffer death, as an atonement for the rest.  
The Fox was appointed father confessor upon the occasion; and the Lion with great generosity condescended to be the first in making public confession.  
"For my part," said he, "I must own I have been an enormous offender; I have killed many innocent sheep in my time; nay once, but it was a case of necessity, I made a meal of the shepherd."  
The Fox, with much gravity, acknowledged that these in any other than the King would have been inexpiable crimes; but that his majesty had certainly a right to a few silly sheep, nay, and to the shepherd too, in a case of necesity.  
The judgment of the Fox was applauded by all the superior savages; and the Tyger, the Leopard, the Bear, and the Wolf, made confession of many enormities of the like sanguinary nature: which were all palliated or excused with the same lenity and mercy; and their crimes accounted so venial as scarce to deserve the name of offences.  
At last, a poor penitent Ass, with great contrition acknowledged, that once going thro' the parson's meadow, being very hungry, and tempted by the sweetness of the grass, he had cropt a little of it, not more however in quantity than the tip of his tongue: he was very sorry for the misdemeanour, and hoped --  
"Hope!" exclaimed the Fox with singular zeal, "What canst thou hope for, after the commission of so heinous a crime? What! Eat the parson's grass! O sacrilege! This, this is the flagrant wickedness, my brethren, which has drawn the wrath of heaven upon our heads; and this the notorious offender, whose death must make atonement for all our transgressions."  
So saying, he ordered his entrails for sacrifice, and the rest of the beasts went to dinner upon his carcase.