A king had six daughters who disappeared every night from their beds 
without anyone knowing where they went, and every time that they returned 
the soles were gone from their shoes. The king tried every earthly way to 
discover what was happening, but he never succeeded. Then he proclaimed 
that if anyone could reveal to him where his daughters were going every 
night, he could choose one of them to be his wife.   
A peasant got news of this and became so engrossed with the thoughts of 
how he himself might thus win a princess that with time he fell into deep 
despair. One day while sadly walking along he met a dwarf who asked him 
why he was so gloomy. At first the peasant did not want to answer, saying 
that the dwarf would not be able to help him.   
The dwarf replied, "You cannot know that. Just tell me."   
So the peasant told him what the king had proclaimed, and how had become 
discouraged, not knowing how he could discover the secret.   
To this the dwarf told the peasant to go to a certain meadow just outside 
the city, describing exactly where it was. There he would find a 
washhouse, inside of which there was a bed. The peasant should lie down on 
this bed and pretend to be sound asleep. He should also place a brandy 
bottle next to him, to make it appear that he was drunk. However, on no 
account was he to drink anything, but instead was to pay close attention 
to whatever the princesses did and to follow their every move.   
The peasant went to the house and did exactly what he had been told to do. 
That night at eleven o'clock the princesses arrived. They shook him 
soundly to find out if he was asleep. When he neither stirred nor moved 
they opened a trapdoor that he had not seen before and climbed down 
through it. The peasant quickly jumped up and followed after them.   
As soon as he went through the trapdoor he became invisible, so the 
princesses, who were walking ahead of him, could not see him. They soon 
entered a beautiful tree-lined walkway. Then they came to a pear tree 
loaded with pears of pure gold. The peasant plucked one of them, 
immediately causing a loud cracking sound. The princesses heard this and 
were afraid that the peasant in the bed was following them. But seeing no 
one, they continued on their way.   
They came to a broad river. A rowboat was on the bank, which the six 
princesses climbed into, and the peasant as well. On the other side of the 
river there stood a magnificent castle. They went inside, then entered a 
large hall with a floor made of golden flax-comb teeth.  
In the hall six enchanted princes were awaiting the princesses, and they 
immediately began to dance with them. While they were dancing the peasant 
broke loose one of the golden flax-comb teeth, again causing a loud 
cracking sound. The princesses were once again afraid, but seeing no one, 
they put themselves at ease.   
After dancing away the hour between eleven and twelve, they hurriedly 
departed, climbed into the rowboat, and crossed the river. The peasant was 
with them in the boat, and then he rushed on ahead, lay down on the bed, 
and pretended to be asleep. Arriving at their castle, the princesses too 
went to bed and fell asleep.     
The next day the peasant went to the king, saying that he wanted to reveal 
where his daughters were going every night, and he told him everything. 
  
The king had his daughters come before him one at a time and asked each 
one, beginning with the oldest, if what the peasant said was true. The 
five oldest stubbornly denied everything, whereupon the king had each of 
their heads cut off, one after the other.   
Only the youngest daughter said that she would confess everything. For 
five years now they had been dancing with the enchanted princes every 
night. If they had finished dancing the sixth year with them, they would 
have been redeemed. They could also be redeemed by allowing their heads to 
be cut off, like the five sisters.   
The peasant received the youngest princess for his wife.