The following story was written down for me in March, 1889, by
Miss Frances Perry, of Exeter, N. H., from her recollection of the
form in which it was repeated to her by a relative, some fifteen years
ago. It is thought to have been derived from an Irish domestic.
"The Little Cakeen" is an interesting variant of the tale already
printed in the  Journal of American Folk-Lore  (vol. ii. pp. 60, 217),
under the title of " Johnny-Cake ." 
 
Once upon a time there was a little maneen and a little womaneen;
and the little womaneen made a little cakeen and put it in the
oven to bake. And the little maneen stood at one side of the oven,
and said the little cakeen was done; and the little womaneen stood
at the other side and said it wasn't. And while they were quarrelling
about it, the little cakeen jumped out of the oven and ran off;
and the little maneen and the little womaneen ran after it. 
 
Pretty soon the little cakeen came to a little pusheen [cat?], and the
little pusheen said, "Where are you going so fast, little cakeen, on
those little legs of yours?" 
 
And the little cakeen said: "I'm running away from the little
maneen; I'm running away from the little womaneen, and now I'll
run away from you!"  
 
So the little pusheen ran after it. Then it
came to a little dogeen, and the little dogeen said, "Where are you
going so fast, little cakeen, on those little legs of yours?"  
 
And the little cakeen said: "I'm running away from the little maneen; I'm
running away from the little womaneen; I'm running away from the
little pusheen, and now I'11 run away from you!"  
 
So the little dogeen ran after it (and so on, with coween, heneen, owleen, etc.). 
 
Then it came to a little foxeen; and the little foxeen said: "Where
are you going so fast, little cakeen, on those little legs of yours?" 
 
And the little cakeen answered: "I'm running away from the little
maneen; I'm running away from the little womaneen; I'm running
away from the little pusheen; I'm running away from the little dogeen;
I'm running away from the little coween; I'm running away
from the little heneen; I'm running away from the little owleen
(etc., etc.), and now I'll run away from you."  
 
But the little foxeen said: " Oh! don't do that, little cakeen; I will show you where to hide."  
 
So the little cakeen said, " All right!"  
 
So the little foxeen said: "Jump upon my tail;" and the little cakeen jumped on his tail.  
 
Then the foxeen said: "Jump on my back;" and the little cakeen jumped on his back.  
 
Then the little foxeen said: "Jump on my head;" so the little cakeen jumped on his head.  
 
Then the little foxeen said: "Now jump in my mouth."  
 
So the little cakeen jumped into his mouth, and he ate it all up!