Long, long ago at Matsakya some of the people had been running stick races 
[ tikwane ] and losing. "Let us have Mole [ yei ] and Hawk 
[ anelaue ] run against each other!" said the people of Matsakya. On 
the side of Hawk were to be those who had been winning the races; on the 
side of Mole, those who had been losing.   
The bow priests [ apilashiwanni ] of the winners went over to see 
Hawk. They said to him, "We wish to have a race. We wish you and Mole to 
run against each other."   
Hawk said, "When is the race to be run?"   
They said, "We wish to have it tomorrow."   
Hawk said, "No, we cannot have it tomorrow. You must wait four days."   
The bow priest of the losers went to Mole. He said, "We want to have a 
race between you and Hawk."   
Mole said, "When is the race to be run?"   
"We wish to have it tomorrow."   
Mole said, "No, we cannot have it tomorrow. You must wait four days."   
The day before the race they collected the stakes: beads, red and white, 
and turquoise. The night before, Mole went to the houses of the others 
(i.e., the other moles), and told them at different places, as Hawk should 
come along, to stick out their heads. Mole said, "About that time urinate 
and wet yourselves, so that, when Hawk comes up and sees you, he will 
think you are sweating."   
Mole went to his house and stayed there all night. Hawk staid in his house 
all night. The next day they brought the stakes into the plaza.   
When they had finished laying the bets, Mole said to Hawk, "Which 
direction shall we take? I will go under ground, and you above ground." 
  
Hawk said, "Let us go by Matsakya, Tsililiima, Tekiapoi, Awiela, 
Alihemula, Kopachia, Telaluwaiela, Akiapoella, Kushinolko, Matsakya."   
As soon as they started off, Mole went into his hole and staid in it. Hawk 
flew on to Tsililiima. There a mole poked out his head, and called out, 
"Keep on! We are running together. Keep on as you are!" Then he went back 
underground.   
Hawk flew on to Tekiapoi. There another mole poked out his head, and 
called out, "Keep on! We are running together. Keep on as you are!"   
Meanwhile Mole, he who made the bet, prayed to his father the sun, and the 
clouds began to gather. By the time Kopachia was reached and the mole 
there looked out of the hole, Hawk was behind. The mole waited. He said, 
"If you don't make haste, I shall leave you behind." By that time the rain 
was falling fast.   
When Hawk reached Telaluwaiela, he was wet through. At Akiapoella, Hawk 
was wobbling, he was drenched. The mole there said, "You best make haste, 
I am leaving you far behind. I had to wait here for you a long time."   
Hawk could hardly fly. At Matsakya, Mole jumped out where the things were 
piled, and said, "That is the way to win a race."   
Mole won everything: the beads, the turquoise. He took them all to his 
house. Hawk lost everything. He was so muddy he could scarcely fly.