The Gooroo Noodle and His Five Disciples Decide to Purchase a Horse 
The Gooroo demanded how much the price of a horse would amount to. As they heard upon enquiry that it could not cost less than from fifty to a hundred  pagodas,  the Gooroo determined that he had not ability to pay so much.  
The matter thus remained a good while under consideration, when one day they perceived that their milch cow which had been turned out to feed, did not return home at the close of the evening; they sought her all over the village, but as, notwithstanding their search, she was not to be found, Blockhead on the following day went to seek her in the surrounding villages.  
On his return to the  Mattam  the third day, unable to discover her anywhere, he exclaimed with delight, "The cow, Sir, I cannot find: 'tis no matter, however, for I have met with a horse for us at a very low price.''  
"How is that?" demanded the Gooroo with eagerness.  
To which Blockhead replied, "When I was on my return, after I had been searching from village to village, from common to common, from enclosure to enclosure, in order to find the milch cow, I perceived four or five mares grazing and reposing on the bank of a large lake. As I went on farther I found, in a place which was near, a number of horses' eggs hanging down in every direction, which could not be encompassed by one's two arms. Upon enquiry of one who came up, he informed me that they were in truth horses' eggs, and that the price of each of them was only four or five  pagodas.  Here is a fine opportunity, Sir. We can thus, at an easy rate, obtain a high bred horse, and as for its docility, this will depend upon the manner in which we rear it and break it in."  
They all consented to this proposition, and having united Idiot with him, delivered into their hands five  pagodas,  and despatched them forthwith on their journey. 
After Blockhead and Idiot had set out, in the manner just mentioned, to purchase the horse's egg, Fool thus threw out a doubt. "Grant that the egg of a high bred courser be obtained, still when obtained, it is only after having been sat upon that it will be hatched; but who in the world is to hatch it I am sure I do not know. He says that it is not to be encompassed by one's two arms: though then we were to keep ten hens together upon it, they could not even stand upon it, much less cover it. Tell us then how we arc to manage in this business."  
On hearing what he said, they all stared at each other with astonishment, and without opening their mouths, remained speechless.  
After a considerable pause, the Gooroo addressed himself separately to each of the three who were present, saying, "I see no other way but that one of us should sit on it."  
Upon this each made his excuses.  
"It is my business," says one, "to go daily to the river and fetch all the water that is wanted, as also to go to the jungle and procure canes for firewood, how therefore can I possibly hatch it?"  
Says another, "After remaining night and day without intermission in the kitchen, dressing rice, cooking all kinds of curries, making fancy cakes and boiling water, for everybody, thus killing myself at the stoves, how can the hatching be performed by me?"  
Says another, "Before daybreak I go to the river, and after having cleansed my teeth, rinsed my mouth, washed my face, purified my hands and feet, and completed all my ceremonies according to the rules, I have to go round the flower gardens, cull the new buds, bring them hither with due respect, tie long garlands, strew flowers over different idols, at the same time worshipping them, and daily assist at the  Poojei  of the deity. Such is my business; is it not? With all this, how can I hatch it?"  
To this the Gooroo replied, ''This is all quite true; neither can it be accomplished by the other two who are gone away; for one of them has more business than he can finish, in making enquiries respecting those who come and go, in giving answers to the questions which they propose, and in hearing and settling the disputes which are brought before him. Finally, Blockhead, on all occasions when we wish to transact any business, is he not the person who goes to the shops, to the fairs and to the villages? It is very true, therefore, that you must follow those occupations which constantly require your attention. For my part, am I not here doing nothing? I will place the egg in my lap, embrace it with my arms, cover it with the skirt of my cloth, hug it in my bosom, guard it with tenderness, and thus hatch it. It is enough if we do but produce the horse, we will not regard the trouble which is to be endured."  
Whilst all this deliberation was taking place in the  Mattam,  Blockhead and Idiot, who had set out in the third watch with the rising moon, after a journey of more than two  kadams  and a half, bent their course towards the mark which they had before seen and noticed, and arrived at the borders of the lake where there was an abundance of pumpkins in fruit.  
On perceiving this, being greatly delighted, they went to the countryman who was attending there and entreated him, saying, "Master, we earnestly conjure you to give us one of these eggs."  
He, in his turn, seeing their idiotism, said, "Hey-day! do you suppose yourselves fit to buy such high bred horses' eggs as these? They are very costly indeed."  
To this they replied, "Go to Master, do we not know that five  pagodas  is the price of them? Look ye, friend, take your five  pagodas  and give us a good egg."  
To this he answered, ''You are, to be sure, fine honest fellows. In consideration of your good qualities, I consent to give them to you at this price; select therefore an egg to your liking, and go your ways, but do not publish it abroad that you have obtained it at this easy rate."  
They both of them selected and took away a fruit which was larger than all the rest, and rising early the next morning, they set out on their journey just as the day was breaking.  
Blockhead having carefully taken the egg and lifted it on his head, the other went before shewing the way, and while they were thus going along, Blockhead began to say, "Ay, ay, our forefathers have said,  They who perform penance, are forwarding their own affairs.  We have now seen the proof of this with our own eyes. This in truth is the profit which has accrued by the penance continually performed by our Gooroo. A high bred horse, which is worth a hundred or a hundred and fifty  pagodas,  we purchase and take to him for five."  
To which Idiot replied, "Needs this any reflection? Hast thou not heard the saying --  From pious actions alone proceeds delight; all else is irrelevant and unworthy of praise.  From virtue, not only profit, but pleasure proceeds; except there be virtue, all else will be misery and disgrace. Did not my father for a long time practise many virtues; and he found his profit and delight in the end, in having me born to him."  
To which the other replied, "Can this be doubted?  If you sow a castor oil tree, will an ebony tree he produced?  From good actions, good will proceed, from evil actions, evil."  
Thus conversing, after they had walked along for a considerable distance, the pumpkin, from striking against the bough of a tree which was bent and hanging down, was dashed out of his hands, and suddenly tumbling upon some shrubs which were spreading in bushes below, cracked and fell to pieces.  
Upon this, a hare which was sitting in the bushes started up and ran away. Taking the alarm, they cried out, ''Behold! The horse's foal which was in the shell has run away;" and followed after to catch and seize it.  
Running, regardless of hills or dales, or woods or commons, the clothes which they had on became entangled in the thorny bushes, and were partly torn and partly detained. They continued the pursuit, with their flesh lacerated by the stumps which they trod on, their blood flowing in consequence of the thorns which stuck into them, their bodies all streaming with perspiration, their hearts beating, their two ears closed, puffing and blowing with fatigue, and their bowels jolting; notwithstanding which, the hare was not caught, and they both fell down, wearied out and harassed with fatigue.  
In the meantime the hare went on, and becoming concealed, so as no longer to be kept in sight, it ran away to a great distance. They too, regardless of their weariness, rose up, and with legs limping and wounded by thorns, stones and stumps, searched in every direction. Journeying in this afflicted condition, they suffered hunger and fasting all that day, and after sunset arrived at the  Mattam.   
When they entered in at the gate, they smote their mouths, crying, "Alas! Alas!" and beating themselves, fell down.  
"What is it? What is it? What harm has come to you?" demanded the rest; who came, and, taking them by the hand, raised them up. After the two had related in detail all the circumstances that had happened.  
Blockhead spoke as follows: "O Sir, since the day that I was born, I never beheld so swift a horse as this: of an ash colour, mixed with black; in form and size like a hare, and a cubit in length. Although a foal still in the nest, it pricked up its two ears, cocked its tail, which rose up the length of two fingers, extended and stretched forth its four legs, and with its heart close to the ground, ran with a swiftness and impetuosity which can neither be expressed nor conceived."   
Upon this they were all bewailing, when the Gooroo appeasing them, said, "True indeed, the five  pagodas  are gone, but however, it is well that the horse's foal is gone also; if whilst a foal it runs in this manner, when hereafter it shall become full grown, who will be able to ride upon it? I truly am an old man: a horse of this description, my friends, although it were presented to me gratis, I would not accept."