One day a young boy named Johann hired himself out as a herdsman on a farm. After three years he left the service and asked his master for his wages. The master took three hellers from his purse and gave them to Johann, who happily went on his way. After three days he came to a crossroads.   
A dirty, ragged old man was sitting there. He called to him, "Give me something, for God's sake!"  
"I only have three hellers, but I'll give them to you. In three years I'll earn them again. Just take them."  
"I thank you very much, and I shall grant you three wishes. What do you choose."  
"I ask for a gun that never misses its target, for a violin that makes everyone dance, and further I wish that no one will be able refuse my requests."  
The old man made the wishes come true, and Johann continued on his way, half dancing, half walking. He came to a forest and stayed there to rest.  
Suddenly he heard someone say, "Oh, I'd gladly give anything if I could have the beautiful nightingale singing over there on that tree."  
It was the farmer who had given Johann three hellers as wages who uttered these words. Johann took his gun, which never missed its target, and shot down the nightingale, which fell into a thicket of thorns. The miser crept into the thorny thicket. Johann took up his violin and played, and the miser, driven by a higher power, began to hop and leap, and the thorns pricked him miserably.  
"Hold on, hold on," he yelled to the boy, "I'll give you five hundred thalers. Just let me go." 
Johann stopped playing, the farmer paid him the thalers, but went away grumbling and then brought charges against him at the court. Johann was arrested and sentenced to death. The execution was to take place the next day.  
The farmer, the judges, and all the local people were gathered at the place of execution, where a high gallows was set up. Johann was brought in but asked the judges for his violin so that he could play once more before he died.  
The farmer yelled, "Don't give it to him! Tie me up!" 
But since Johann could not be denied anything, the violin was brought to him. He started to play, and everyone had to dance. The judges, tired and exhausted, asked Johann to stop playing and promised him that they would set him free.  
He agreed to this and was now able to return to his village with his gun and his violin, which he still used on various occasions.   
(Somme)