One day, when the sun was at the zenith and the air was very hot, a poor 
dragonfly, fatigued with her long journey, alighted to rest on a branch of 
a tree in which a great many monkeys lived.   
While she was fanning herself with her wings, a monkey approached her, and 
said, "Aha! What are you doing here, wretched creature?"   
"O sir! I wish you would permit me to rest on this branch while the sun is 
so hot," said the dragonfly softly. "I have been flying all morning, and I 
am so hot and tired that I can go no farther," she added.   
"Indeed!" exclaimed the monkey in a mocking tone. "We don't allow any weak 
creature such as you are to stay under our shelter. Go away!" he said 
angrily, and, taking a dry twig, he threw it at the poor creature.   
The dragonfly, being very quick, had flown away before the cruel monkey 
could hit her. She hurried to her brother the king, and told him what had 
happened. The king became very angry, and resolved to make war on the 
monkeys. So he dispatched three of his soldiers to the king of the monkeys 
with this challenge:  
 

The King of the Monkeys   
Sir,   
As one of your subjects has treated my sister cruelly, I am resolved to 
kill you and your subjects with all speed. 
 DRAGON  
 
 
The monkey king laughed at the challenge. He said to the messengers, "Let 
your king and his soldiers come to the battlefield, and they will see how 
well my troops fight."   
"You don't mean what you say, cruel king," answered the messengers. "You 
should not judge before the fight is over."   
"What fools, what fools!" exclaimed the king of the monkeys. "Go to your 
ruler and tell him my answer," and he drove the poor little creatures 
away.   
When the king of the dragonflies received the reply, he immediately 
ordered his soldiers to go to the battlefield, but without anything to 
fight with. Meanwhile the monkeys came, each armed with a heavy stick.   
Then the monkey king shouted, "Strike the flying creatures with your 
clubs!"   
When King Dragon heard this order, he commanded his soldiers to alight on 
the foreheads of their enemies. Then the monkeys began to strike at the 
dragonflies, which were on the foreheads of their companions. The 
dragonflies were very quick, and were not hurt at all; but the monkeys 
were all killed. Thus the light, quick-witted dragonflies won the victory 
over the strong but foolish monkeys.