Once upon a time there was a hen that had flown up and perched on an
oak tree for the night. When the night came, she dreamed that unless she
got to Dovrefjell, the world would come to an end. So that very minute she
jumped down, and set out on her way. When she had walked a bit she met a
cock. 
 "Good day, Cocky-Locky," said the hen. 
 "Good day, Henny-Penny," said the cock. "Where are you going so
early?" 
 "Oh, I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end,"
said the hen. 
 "Who told you that, Henny-Penny?" asked the cock. 
 "I sat in the oak and dreamed it last night," said the hen. 
 "I'll go with you," said the cock. 
 Well, they walked on a good bit, and then they met a duck. 
 "Good day, Ducky-Lucky," said the cock. 
 "Good day, Cocky-Locky" said the duck. "Where are you going so
early?" 
 "Oh, I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end,"
said the cock. 
 "Who told you that, Cocky-Locky?" 
 "Henny-Penny," said the cock. 
 "Who told you that, Henny-Penny?" asked the duck. 
 "I sat in the oak and dreamed it last night," said the hen. 
 "I'll go with you," said the duck. 
 So they went off together, and after a bit they met a goose. 
 "Good day, Goosey-Poosey," said the duck. 
 "Good day, Ducky-Lucky," said the goose. "Where are you going so
early?" 
 "I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end," said
the duck. 
 "Who told you that, Ducky-Lucky?" asked the goose. 
 "Cocky-Locky." 
 "Who told you that, Cocky-Locky?" 
 "Henny-Penny." 
 "How do you know that, Henny-Penny?" said the goose. 
 "I sat in the oak and dreamed it last night, Goosey-Poosey," said the
hen. 
 "I'll go with you," said the goose. 
 Now when they had all walked along for a bit, a fox met them. 
 "Good day, Foxy-Cocksy," said the goose. 
 "God day, Goosey-Poosey." 
 "Where are you going, Foxy-Cocksy?" 
 "Where are you going yourself, Goosey-Poosey?" 
 "I'm going to Dovrefjell, that the world won't come to an end," said
the goose. 
 "Who told you that, Goosey-Poosey?" asked the fox. 
 "Ducky-Lucky." 
 "Who told you that, Ducky-Lucky?" 
 "Cocky-Locky." 
 "Who told you that, Cocky-Locky?" 
 "Henny-Penny." 
 "How do you know that, Henny-Penny?" 
 "I sat in the oak and dreamed last night, that if we don't get to
Dovrefjell, the world will come to an end," said the hen. 
 "Stuff and nonsense," said the fox. "The world won't come to an end if
you don't go there. No, come home with me to my den. That's far better,
for it's warm and jolly there." 
 Well, they went home with the fox to his den, and when they got inside,
the fox laid on lots of fuel, so that they all got very sleepy. The duck
and the goose, they settled themselves down in a corner, but the cock and
hen flew up on a post. So when the goose and duck were well asleep, the
fox took the goose and laid him on the embers, and roasted him. The hen
smelled the strong roast meat, and sprang up to a higher peg, and said,
half asleep, "Phooey, what a nasty smell! What a nasty smell!" 
 "Oh, stuff!" said the fox. "It's only the smoke driven down the
chimney. Go to sleep again, and hold your tongue." So the hen went off to
sleep again. 
 Now the fox had hardly got the goose well down his throat, before he
did the very same with the duck. He took and laid him on the embers, and
roasted him for a dainty bit. 
 Then the hen woke up again, and sprang up to a higher peg still.
"Phooey, what a nasty smell! What a nasty smell!" she said again, and when
she got her eyes open, and came to see how the fox and eaten two of them,
both the goose and the duck. So she flew up to the highest peg of all, and
perched there, and peeped up through the chimney. 
 "Nay, nay, just see what a lovely lot of geese are flying over there,"
she said to the fox. 
 Out ran Reynard to fetch a fat roast. But while he was gone, the hen
woke up the cock and told him how it had gone with Goosey-Poosey and
Ducky-Lucky. And so Cocky-Locky and Henny-Penny flew out through the
chimney, and if they hadn't reached Dovrefjell, the world surely would have come to an end.