Fairy Legends and Traditions of the South of 
Ireland 
Mrs. Sullivan fancied that her youngest child had been exchanged by 
"fairies theft," and certainly appearances warranted such a conclusion; 
for in one night her healthy, blue-eyed boy had become shrivelled up into 
almost nothing, and never ceased squalling and crying.  This naturally 
made poor Mrs. Sullivan very unhappy; and all the neighbors, by way of 
comforting her, said that her own child was, beyond any kind of doubt, 
with the good people, and that one of themselves was put in his place.
  
Mrs. Sullivan of course could not disbelieve what every one told her, but 
she did not wish to hurt the thing; for although its face was so 
withered, and its body wasted away to a mere skeleton, it had still a 
strong resemblance to her own boy.  She, therefore, could not find it in 
her heart to roast it alive on the griddle, or to burn its nose off with 
the red hot tongs, or to throw it out in the snow on the roadside, 
notwithstanding these, and several like proceedings, were strongly 
recommended to her for the recovery of her child.
  
One day who should Mrs. Sullivan meet but a cunning woman, well known 
about the country by the name of Ellen Leah (or Grey Ellen).  She had the 
gift, however she got it, of telling where the dead were, and what was 
good for the rest of their souls; and could charm away warts and wens, 
and do a great many wonderful things of the same nature.
  
"You're in grief this morning, Mrs. Sullivan," were the first words of 
Ellen Leah to her.
  
"You may say that, Ellen," said Mrs. Sullivan, "and good cause I have to 
be in grief, for there was my own fine child whipped off from me out of 
his cradle, without as much as 'by your leave' or 'ask you pardon,' and 
an ugly dony bit of of a shrivelled up fairy put in his place; no wonder, 
then, that you see me in grief, Ellen."
  
"Small blame to you, Mrs. Sullivan," said Ellen Leah, "but are you sure 
'tis a fairy?"
  
"Sure!" echoed Mrs. Sullivan, "sure enough I am to my sorrow, and can I 
doubt my own two eyes?  Every mother's soul must feel for me!"
  
"Will you take an old woman's advice?" said Ellen Leah, fixing her wild 
and mysterious gaze upon the unhappy mother; and, after a pause, she 
added, "but maybe you'll call it foolish?"
  
"Can you get me back my child, my own child, Ellen?" said Mrs. Sullivan 
with great energy.
  
"If you do as I bid you," returned Ellen Leah, "you'll know."  Mrs. 
Sullivan was silent in expectation, and Ellen continued, "Put down the 
big pot, full of water, on the fire, and make it boil like mad; then get 
a dozen new-laid eggs, break them, and keep the shells, but throw away 
the rest; when that is done, put the shells in the pot of boiling water, 
and you will soon know whether it is your own boy or a fairy.  If you 
find that it is a fairy in the cradle, take the red hot poker and cram in 
down his ugly throat, and you will not have much trouble with him after 
that I promise you."
  
Home went Mrs. Sullivan, and did as Ellen Leah desired.  She put the pot 
on the fire, and plenty of turf under it, and set the water boiling as 
such a rate, that if ever water was red hot, it surely was.
  
The child was lying, for a wonder, quite easy and quiet in the cradle, 
very now and then cocking his eye, that would twinkle as keen as a star 
in a frosty night, over at the great fire, and the big pot upon it; and 
he looked on with great attention at Mrs. Sullivan breaking the eggs and 
putting down the eggshells to boil.  At last he asked, with the voice of 
a very old man, "What are you doing mammy?"
  
Mrs. Sullivan's heart, as she said herself, was up in her mouth ready to 
choke her, at hearing the child speak.  But she contrived to put the 
poker in the fire, and to answer, without making any wonder at the words, 
"I'm brewing,  a vick " (my son).
  
"And what are you brewing, mammy?" said the little imp, whose 
supernatural gift of speech now proved beyond question that he was a 
fairy substitute.
  
"I wish the poker was red," thought Mrs. Sullivan; but it was a large 
one, and took a long time heating; so she determined to keep him in talk 
until the poker was in a proper state to thrust down his throat, and 
therefore repeated the question.
  
"Is it what I'm brewing,  a vick, " said she, "you want to know?"
  
"Yes, mammy: what are you brewing?" returned the fairy.
  
"Eggshells,  a vick, " said Mrs. Sullivan.
  
"Oh!" shrieked the imp, starting up in the cradle, and clapping his hands 
together, "I'm fifteen hundred years in the world, and I never saw a 
brewery of eggshells before!"  The poker was by this time quite red, and 
Mrs. Sullivan, seizing it, ran furiously towards the cradle; but somehow 
or other her foot slipped, and she fell flat on the floor, and the poker 
flew out of her hand to the other end of the house.  
 
However, she got up without much loss of time and went to the cradle, 
intending to pitch the wicked thing that was in it into the pot of 
boiling water, when there she saw her own child in a sweet sleep, one of 
his soft round arms rested upon the pillow--his features were as placid 
as if their repose had never been disturbed, save the rosy mouth, which 
moved with a gentle and regular breathing.