There lived in the adjoining parish of Rosemarkie, when the fame of the 
mill was at its highest, a wild unsettled fellow, named M'Kechan. Had he 
been born among the aristocracy of the country, he might have passed for 
nothing worse than a young man of spirit; and after sowing his wild oats 
among gentlemen of the turf and of the fancy, he would naturally have 
settled down into the shrewd political landlord, who, if no builder of 
churches himself, would he willing enough to exert the privilege of giving 
clergymen, exclusively of his own choosing, to such churches as had been 
built already.   
As a poor man, however, and the son of a poor man, Tam M'Kechan seemed to 
bid pretty fair for the gallows; nor could he plead ignorance that such 
was the general opinion. He had been told so when a herd-boy; for it was 
no unusual matter for his master, a farmer of the parish, to find him 
stealing peas in the corner of one field, when the whole of his charge 
were ravaging the crops of another. He had been told so too when a sailor, 
ere he had broken his indentures and ran away, when once caught among the 
casks and packages in the hold, ascertaining where the Geneva and the 
sweetmeats were stowed. And now that be was a drover and a horse-jockey, 
people, though they no longer told him so, for Tam had become dangerous, 
seemed as certain of the fact as ever.   
With all his roguery, however, when not much in liquor he was by no means 
a very disagreeable companion; few could match him at a song or the 
bagpipe, and though rather noisy in his cups and somewhat quarrelsome, his 
company was a good deal courted by the bolder spirits of the parish, and 
among the rest by the miller. Tam had heard of the piebald horses and 
their ghostly attendants [fairies that were believed to frequent the 
area]; but without more knowledge than fell to the share of his neighbors, 
he was a much greater skeptic, and after rallying the miller on his 
ingenuity and the prettiness of his fancy, he volunteered to spend a night 
at the mill, with no other companion than his pipes.   
Preparatory to the trial the miller invited one of his neighbors, the 
young farmer of Eathie, that they might pass the early part of the evening 
with Tam; but when, after an hour's hard drinking, they rose to leave the 
cottage, the farmer, a kindhearted lad, who was besides warmly attached to 
the jockey's only sister, would fain have dissuaded him from the 
undertaking.   
"I've been thinking, Tam," he said, "that flyte wi' the miller as ye may, 
ye would better let the  good people  alone; or stay, sin' ye are sae 
bent on playing the fule, I'll e'en play it wi' you; rax me my plaid; 
we'll trim up the fire in the killogie thegether; an' you will keep me in 
music."   
"Na, Jock Hossack," said Tam, "I maun keep my good music for the  good 
people ; it's rather late to flinch now; but come to the burn edge wi' 
me the night, an" to the mill as early in the morning as ye may; an' hark 
ye, tak a double caulker [dram] wi' you."   
He wrapt himself up closely in his plaid, took the pipes under his arm, 
and, accompanied by Jock and the miller, set out for the dell, into which, 
however, he insisted on descending alone. Before leaving the bank, his 
companions could see that he had succeeded in lighting up a fire in the 
mill, which gleamed through every bore and opening, and could hear the 
shrill notes of a pibroch [a bagpipe tune] mingling with the dash of the 
cascade.   
The sun had risen high enough to look aslant into the dell, when Jock and 
the miller descended to the mill, and found the door lying wide open. All 
was silent within; the fire had sunk into a heap of white ashes, though 
there was a bundle of fagots untouched beside it, and the stool on which 
Tam had been seated lay overturned in front. But there were no traces of 
Tam, except that the miller picked up, beside the stool, a little 
flat-edged instrument, used by the unfortunate jockey in concealing the 
age of his horses by effacing the marks on their teeth, and that Jock 
Hossack found one of the drones of his pipes among the extinguished 
embers.   
Weeks passed away, and there was still nothing heard of Tam; and as 
everyone seemed to think it would be in vain to seek for him any where but 
in the place where he had been lost, Jock Hossack, whose marriage was 
vexatiously delayed in consequence of his strange disappearance, came to 
the resolution of unraveling the mystery, if possible, by passing a night 
in the mill.   
For the first few hours he found the evening wear heavily away; the only 
sounds that reached him were the loud monotonous dashings of the cascade, 
and the duller rush of the stream as it swept past the mill-wheel. He 
piled up fuel on the fire till the flames rose halfway to the ceiling, and 
every beam and rafter stood out from the smoke as clearly as by day; and 
then yawning, as he thought how companionable a thing a good fire is, he 
longed for something to amuse him.   
A sudden cry rose from the further gable, accompanied by a flutter of 
wings, and one of the miller's ducks, a fine plump bird, came swooping 
down among the live embers.   
"Poor bird!" said Jock, "From the fox to the fire; I had almost forgotten 
that I wanted my supper."   
He dashed the duck against the floor -- plucked and emboweled it -- and 
then, suspending the carcass by a string before the fire, began to twirl 
it round and round to the heat. The strong odoriferous fume had begun to 
fill the apartment, and the drippings to hiss and sputter among the 
embers, when a burst of music rose so suddenly from the green without, 
that Jock, who had been so engaged with the thoughts of his supper as 
almost to have forgotten the fames, started half a yard from his seat.   
"That maun be Tam's pipes," he said ; and giving a twirl to the duck he 
rose to a window.   
The moon, only a few days in her wane, was looking aslant into the dell, 
lighting the huge melancholy cliffs with their birches and hazels, and the 
white flickering descent of the cascade. The little level green on the 
margin of the stream lay more in the shade; but Jock could see that it was 
crowded with figures marvelously diminutive in stature, and that nearly 
one half of them were engaged in dancing. It was enough for him, however, 
that the music was none of Tam's making; and, leaving the little creatures 
to gambol undisturbed, he returned to the fire.  
He had hardly resumed his seat when a low tap was heard at the door, and 
shortly after a second and a third. Jock sedulously turned his duck to the 
heat, and sat still. He had no wish for visitors, and determined on 
admitting none. The door, however, though firmly bolted, fell open of 
itself, and there entered one of the strangest-looking creatures he had 
ever seen. The figure was that of a man, hut it was little more than three 
feet in height; and though the face was as sallow and wrinkled as that of 
a person of eighty, the eye had the roguish sparkle and the limbs all the 
juvenile activity of fourteen.   
"What's your name, man?" said the little thing coming up to Jock, and 
peering into his face till its wild elfish features were within a few 
inches of his. "What's your name?"   
"Mysel' an Mysel'" -- i. e., myself -- said Jock, with a policy similar to 
that resorted to by Ulysses in the cave of the giant.   
"Ah, Mysel' an Mysel'!" rejoined the creature; "Mysel an Mysel'! and 
what's that you have got there, Mysel' an Mysel'?" touching the duck as it 
spoke with the tip of its finger, and then transferring part of the 
scalding gravy to the cheek of Jock.   
Rather an unwarrantable liberty, thought the poor fellow, for so slight an 
acquaintance; the creature reiterated the question, and dabbed Jock's 
other cheek with a larger and still more scalding application of the 
gravy.   
"What is it?" he exclaimed, losing in his anger all thought of 
consequences, and dashing the bird, with the full swing of his arm, 
against the face of his visitor, "It's that!"   
The little creature, blinded and miserably burnt, screamed out in pain and 
terror till the roof rung again; the music ceased in a moment, and Jock 
Hossack had barely time to cover the fire with a fresh heap of fuel, which 
for a few seconds reduced the apartment to total darkness, when the crowd 
without came swarming like wasps to every door and window of the mill.   
"Who did it, Sanachy -- who did it?" was the query of a thousand voices at 
once.   
"Oh, 'twas Mysel' an Mysel'," said the creature; "'twas Mysel' an Mysel'." 
  
"And if it was yoursel' and yoursel', who, poor Sanachy," replied his 
companions, "can help that?"   
They still, however, clustered round the mill; the flames began to rise in 
long pointed columns through the smoke, and Jock Hossack had just given 
himself up for lost, when a cock crew outside the building, and after a 
sudden breeze had moaned for a few seconds among the cliffs and the 
bushes, and then stink in the lower recesses of the dell, he found himself 
alone.   
He was married shortly after to the sister of the lost jockey, and never 
again saw the  good people , or, what he regretted nearly as little, 
his unfortunate brother-in-law. There were some, however, who affirmed, 
that the latter had returned from fairyland seven years after his 
mysterious disappearance, and supported the assertion by the fact, that 
there was one Thomas M'Kechan who suffered at Perth for sheep-stealing a 
few months after the expiry of the seventh year.