A farmer plowed with two oxen from morning until evening. One evening a lion 
came and said, "Give me one of your two oxen or I'll kill you and both of 
the oxen."  
 The farmer was terrified. He unhitched one of the oxen and gave it to 
the lion. The lion took it and dragged it away. The farmer went home with 
the remaining ox and bought a second one that same evening so that the next day he would 
be able to plow again. 
 The next day the farmer plowed again from morning morning until evening, and when it 
was evening the lion came again and said, "Farmer, give me one of your two 
oxen or I'll kill both of them and you as well."  
 Again the farmer gave him an ox. That evening he bought another ox so 
that he would be able to plow again the next day. The next evening the lion came 
again and demanded an ox.   
The farmer gave the lion an ox every 
evening. One evening the jackal came by as the farmer was driving his 
single ox home.  
 The jackal said, "Every morning I see you leave the farmyard with two 
oxen and every evening I see you coming back with only one. Why is that?"  
 The farmer said, "Every evening when I am finished with the day's 
work the lion comes and demands one of my oxen and threatens to kill me 
and both oxen if I don't grant his wish."  
 The jackal said, "If you promise to give me a sheep I will free you 
from the lion."  
 The farmer answered, "If you can free me from the lion I will gladly 
promise you a sheep."  
 The jackal said, "Tomorrow I will call out with a disguised voice from up 
there on the hill and ask who is speaking with you. Then you answer that it is 
only an Asko (a block of wood to be split). Have a hatchet at hand. Do you 
understand me?"  
 The farmer said, "Certainly, I understand you." 
 The next day the farmer took a hatchet with him to the field and plowed 
as usual with the two oxen from morning till eve.  
 When it was evening the lion came and said, "Farmer, give me an ox or I 
shall kill both oxen and you as well."  
 When the lion had said that a deep voice spoke from the hill and said, 
"Farmer, who is talking with you?"  
 The lion was afraid, ducked down, and said in a frightened voice, "That 
is god."  
 But the farmer replied loudly, "It is only an Asko."  
 The voice answered loudly, "Then take your hatchet and split the block 
of wood."  
 The lion said softly, "Just hit me gently, farmer," and with that he bowed his head.   
The farmer gripped his hatchet and struck at 
the lion's skull with all his force so that he split it, and the 
lion died at once.  
 The jackal came down from the hill and said, "I have done what I 
promised. The lion is finished. Tomorrow I will come again to fetch 
the sheep that you promised me."  
 The farmer said, "You shall have it." 
 The farmer came home. He said to his wife, "The jackal has freed me 
from the lion. Now I will give him a ram. I will kill it. You pack it 
up so that I can take it with me to the field tomorrow."  
 The man killed the ram. As his wife was packing it up she said, 
"Why shouldn't we eat the good ram ourselves?" She put the ram into a 
leather sack. She laid the leather sack in a wicker basket. But she had 
their dog to lie down in the basket beside the leather sack.   
She said 
to the farmer, "If the jackal does not take the ram during the day, then bring it home again. Otherwise the animals that have done nothing for you will eat it during the night. Set the 
basket down in the field just as it is and then let happen what will." 
 The farmer went to the field. He put the basket down on the field and 
shouted, "Jackal here is your ram!"  
 Then he went to work, plowing from morning until evening without further concerning himself about the 
basket, the ram, or the jackal. However, the jackal approached the basket in 
order to get the ram. When he stuck his nose into the basket the dog leaped up. 
The jackal ran away as fast as he could. The dog 
ran after him for a while but seeing that the jackal was too 
fast, he gave up and ran home. The jackal swore never to help men 
again. 
 In the evening the farmer came. He looked into the basket and found the 
ram still untouched. So he picked up the basket again with the ram in it, 
brought it home, and said, "The jackal has not called for his ram. Now we 
can eat it ourselves!"