In the neighborhood of Baghdad there was a beautiful meadow, which was 
the home of many wild animals. They would 
have lived very happily there had it not been for one mischief-loving 
lion. Every day this lion wandered about, killing many 
helpless creatures for the mere sport of the slaying.  
 To put an end to this, the animals gathered in a body, and going to the 
lion, spoke to him in this manner, "King lion, we are 
proud to have such a brave and valiant beast to rule over us. But we do 
not think that it is fitting for one of your rank to hunt for 
his own food. We therefore wait upon you with this request: Henceforth do 
you remain quietly at home, and we your subjects 
will bring to your lair such food as it is fitting that a king should 
eat."  
 The lion, who was greatly flattered, immediately accepted their offer. 
Thus every day the animals drew lots to decide who 
among their number should offer himself for the lion's daily portion. In 
due time it came about that the lot fell upon the hare. Now 
the hare, when he learned that it was his turn to die, complained 
bitterly.  
 "Do you not see that we are still tormented by that lion?" he asked the 
other animals. "Only leave it to me, and I will release 
you for all time from his tyranny."  
 The other animals were only too glad at these words, and told the hare 
to go his way. The hare hid for some time in the 
bushes, and then hurried to the lion's lair. By this time the lion was as 
angry as he was hungry. He was snarling, and lashing his 
yellow tail on the ground.  
 When he saw the hare, he called out loudly, "Who are you, and what are 
my subjects doing? I have had no morsel of food today!"  
 The hare besought him to calm his anger and listen to him. "The lot 
fell today," he began, "on another hare and myself. In 
good season we were on our way here to offer ourselves for your dinner, 
when a lion sprang out of the bushes and seized my 
companion. In vain I cried to him that we were destined for the king's 
table, and, moreover, that no one was permitted to hunt in 
these royal woods except your majesty. He paid no heed to my words save to 
retort, 'You do not know what you are saying. I 
am the only king here. That other lion, to whom you all bow down, is a 
usurper.' Dumb with fright, I jumped into the nearest 
bush."  
 The lion grew more and more indignant as he listened to the hare's 
tale.  
 "If I could once find that lion," he roared, "I would soon teach him 
who is king of these woods."  
 "If your majesty will trust me," answered the hare, humbly, "I can take 
you to his hiding place."  
 So the hare and the lion went out together. They crossed the woods and 
the meadow, and came to an ancient well, which 
was full of clear, deep water.  
 "Yonder is the home of your enemy," whispered the hare, pointing to the 
well. "If you go near enough, you can see him. 
But," he added, "perhaps you had better wait until he comes out before you 
attack him."  
 These words only made the lion more indignant. "He shall not live a 
moment after I have laid eyes upon him," he growled. 
 
 So the hare and the lion approached stealthily to the well. As they 
bent over the edge and looked down into the clear water, 
they saw themselves reflected there. The lion, thinking that it was the 
other lion with the other hare, leaped into the well, never to 
come out again.