Witchcraft is not named in the next story, but we can scarcely be wrong in 
assuming it to be the agent at work in it. We must premise that it was, 
perhaps still is, customary in the Lowlands of Scotland, as in other 
secluded districts, for tailors to leave their workshops and go into the 
farmhouses of the neighborhood to work by the day.   
The farmer's wife of Deloraine thus engaged a tailor with his workmen and 
apprentices for the day, begging them to come in good time in the morning. 
They did so, and partook of the family breakfast of porridge and milk. 
During the meal, one of the apprentices observed that the milk jug was 
almost empty, on which the mistress slipped out of the back door with a 
basin in her hand to get a fresh supply.   
The lad's curiosity was roused, for he had heard there was no more milk in 
the house; so he crept after her, hid himself behind the door, and saw her 
turn a pin in the wall, on which a stream of pure milk flowed into the 
basin. She twirled the pin, and the milk stopped. Coming back, she 
presented the tailors with the bowl of milk, and they gladly washed down 
the rest of their porridge with it.   
About noon, while our tailors were busily engaged with the gudeman's 
wardrobe, one of them complained of thirst, and wished for a bowl of milk 
like the morning's.   
"Is that a'?" said the apprentice; "ye'se get that."   
The mistress was out of the way, so he left his work, found his way to the 
spot he had marked in the morning, twirled the pin, and quickly filled a 
basin. But, alas! he could not then stay the stream. Twist the pin as he 
would, the milk still continued to flow. He called the other lads, and 
implored them to come and help him; but they could only bring such tubs 
and buckets as they found in the kitchen, and these were soon filled.   
When the confusion was at its height, the mistress appeared among them, 
looking as black as thunder; while she called out, in a mocking voice, 
"A'ye loons! Ye hae drawn a' the milk fra every coo between the head o' 
Yarrow an' the foot o't. This day ne'er a coo will gie her maister a drop 
o' milk, though he war gawing to starve."   
The tailors slunk away abashed, and from that day forward the wives of 
Deloraine have fed their tailors on nothing but chappit 'taties and kale.