'Tis said that once upon a time a cross old woman laid some starch in a 
basin intending to put it in the clothes in her washtub; but a sparrow 
that a woman, her neighbor, kept as a pet ate it up. Seeing this, the 
cross old woman seized the sparrow and, saying, "You hateful thing!" cut 
its tongue and let it go.   
When the neighbor woman heard that her pet sparrow had got its tongue cut 
for its offense, she was greatly grieved, and set out with her husband 
over mountains and plains to find where it had gone, crying, "Where does 
the tongue-cut sparrow stay? Where does the tongue-cut sparrow stay?"   
At last they found its home. When the sparrow saw that its old master and 
mistress had come to see it, it rejoiced and brought them into its house 
and thanked them for their kindness in old times and spread a table for 
them, and loaded it with saké and fish till there was no more room, 
and made its wife and children and grandchildren all serve the table. At 
last, throwing away its drinking cup, it danced a jig called the 
"sparrow's dance." Thus they spent the day.   
When it began to grow dark, and they began to talk of going home, the 
sparrow brought out two wicker baskets and said, "Will you take the heavy 
one, or shall I give you the light one?"   
The old people replied, "We are old, so give us the light one. It will be 
easier to carry it."   
The sparrow then gave them the light basket and they returned with it to 
their home. "Let us open and see what is in it," they said. And when they 
had opened it and looked they found gold and silver and jewels and rolls 
of silk. They never expected anything like this. The more they took out 
the more they found inside. The supply was inexhaustible. So that house at 
once became rich and prosperous.   
When the cross old woman who had cut the sparrow's tongue out saw this, 
she was filled with envy, and went and asked her neighbor where the 
sparrow lived, and all about the way.   
"I will go too," she said, and at once set out on her search.   
Again the sparrow brought out two wicker baskets and asked as before, 
"Will you take the heavy one, or shall I give you the light one?"   
Thinking the treasure would be great in proportion to the weight of the 
basket, the old woman replied, "Let me have the heavy one."   
Receiving this, she started home with it on her back; the sparrows 
laughing at her as she went. It was as heavy as a stone and hard to carry; 
but at last she got back with it to her house.   
Then when she took off the lid and looked in, a whole troop of frightful 
devils came bouncing out from the inside and at once tore the old woman to 
pieces.