It is said that the knight Saint George was an ancestor of the counts of Mansfeld. Thus, for ages his image has been depicted on all buildings, columns, wells, weapons, shields, windows, and -- above all -- on the Mansfeld coinage. Furthermore, in the city of Mansfeld a church was built in his honor.  
After George left home to see the world, he settled for a lengthy sojourn in Cappadocia. At this time a mighty, poisonous dragon was housed in a large lake just outside of the city of Silene in Libya. With its breath it killed many people who had to pass that way. It then devoured them. Whenever the citizens attacked the dragon, it always drove them back in flight. Wanting to make peace, they gave it two sheep every day. When they ran short of sheep, they sacrificed a human, chosen by lottery, whatever their station in life.  
When the lot fell to the king's only daughter, and she was being led out, the knight Saint George approached, and after learning of the situation, he told her to be of good courage. Mounted on a good horse and with good armour he attacked the dragon, killing it with his lance. For a long time afterward he remained with the king, and was held in great honor.  
Later he traveled to Meissen and took up residence in Staupitz, situated betweetn Leisnig and Döbeln. However, no record of him remains in these places, except for his name and a few ruins.  
Furthermore, the large and prosperous farm at Steinau near Hartha is said to have once belonged the the knight Saint George.  
It happened that one time the knight Saint George was nearly captured by his enemies. He escaped on his horse and fled to the top of the high cliff named  Spitzstein.  Unable to procede further, he promised in his heart that if God would help him, he in turn would build a suitable memorial. He lept safely from the cliff and made his way to the village of Wesewitz, then escaped across the Mulde River.   
It is said that before jumping from the cliff, he let fly into the air a sheet of paper fly upon which was written that wherever it might be found, he would have a church built to thank God. This did happen, and he had the Nauhain church [ Georgs-Kapelle ] built.  
Later it happened that while journeying home he was caught up in the persecution led by Diocletian. He was place in a cask studded with sharp nails and blades and was thrown over a cliff, but he remained unscathed. This angered the despot, who then gave the command to have him beheaded.   
A long time afterward he was cannonized by the pope and entered into the register of saints. In his honor his portrait is always on displacy in the Nauhain church.