A number of years ago a tramp was making his way through the country.
He claimed to be a pious pilgrim on his way from Paderborn to the Holy
Sepulcher in Jerusalem. 
 In Müllheim he asked at the Post Tavern, "How far is it to
Jerusalem?" 
 He was told, "Seven hundred hours, but if you go by way of Mauchen,
taking the footpath, then you will save a quarter of an hour." 
 So in order to save the quarter of an hour he went by way of Mauchen.
And that was not a bad thing. If you don't take advantage of little
benefits you will never get any large ones. We more often have the
opportunity to save or to earn a Batzen [a small German coin] than a
florin, but fifteen Batzen make one florin. And if someone on a journey of
seven hundred hours could save a quarter of an hour every five hours, how
much would he save during the whole trip? Who wants to figure it out? 
 In any event, none of this was very interesting to our disguised
pilgrim. He was pursuing only leisure and good food, so he really did not
care at all where he was. As the old proverb says, a beggar can never take
a wrong turn. It would be a bad village indeed if he couldn't recover more
there than what he used up on his soles getting there, even if were going
barefoot. 
 But still, our pilgrim did want to get back on the high road as soon as
possible, where there were wealthy houses and good cooking. This rascal,
unlike a genuine pilgrim, was not interested in common nourishment
extended to him by a pious and sympathetic hand, but wanted to eat nothing
but nourishing pebble soup. 
 Whenever he came to a good tavern by the side of the road, for example
the Posthaus in Krozingen, or the Baselstab in Schliengen, he would go
inside and ask -- hungrily, humbly, and in God's name -- for some water
soup with pebbles, adding that he had no money. 
 When the sympathetic waitress said to him, "Pious pilgrim, the pebbles
are going to lie hard in your belly," he said, "Right! That's why I choose
them. Pebbles last longer than bread, and it is a long way to Jerusalem.
But if you could give me a little glass of wine with them, in God's name,
then of course I could digest them more easily." 
 Then when the waitress said, "But, pious pilgrim, such a soup can
surely give you no strength," he answered, "Indeed, if you would use meat
broth instead of water it would of course be more nourishing." 
 When the waitress brought him such a soup, saying, "The sops haven't
softened up yet," he said, "You are right, and the soup does seem to be
quite thin. Wouldn't you have a few forkfuls of vegetables, or a little
piece of meat, or both?" 
 Then when the sympathetic waitress put some vegetables and meat into
the dish, he said, "God bless you. Now just give me some bread, and I'll
eat the soup." 
 With that he pulled back the sleeves of his pilgrim's robe and attacked
the work with pleasure. And when he had consumed the last crumb, strand,
and drop, of the bread, wine, meat, vegetables, and meat broth, he said,
"Waitress, your soup has filled me up so much that I can't eat the
wonderful pebbles. That is too bad, but do save them. When I return I
shall bring you a holy mussel from Askalon or a rose from Jericho."