Everyone from Bunclody to Enniscorthy knows the rath  {footnote 1}  between Tombrick and Munfin. Well, there was
a poor, honest, quiet little creature, that lived just at the pass of
Glanamoin, between the hill of Coolgarrow and Kilachdiarmid. His back was
broken when he was a child, and he earned his bread by making cradles, and
bosses, and chairs, and beehives, out of straw and briers. No one in the
barony of Bantry of Scarawalsh could equal him at these. 
 Well, he was a sober little fellow enough, but the best of us may be
overtaken. He was coming from the fair of Enniscorthy one fine summer
evening, up along the beautiful shady road of Munfin; and when he came
near the stream that bounds Tombrick, he turned into the fields to make
his road short. He was singing merrily enough, but by degrees he got a
little stupefied; and when he was passing the dry, grassy ditch that
surrounds the rath, he felt an inclination to sit and rest himself. 
 It is hard to sit awhile, and have your eyes a little glassy, and the
things seeming to turn round you, without falling off asleep; and asleep
my poor little man of straw was in a few minutes. Things like droves of
cattle, or soldiers marching, or big flakes of foam on a flooded river,
were pushing on though his brain, and he thought the drums were playing a
march, when up he woke, and there in the face of the steep bank that was
overgrown with bushes and blackthorn, a passage was open between nice
pillars, and inside was a great vaulted room, with arches crossing each
other, a hundred lamps hanging from the vault, and thousands of nice
little gentlemen and ladies, with green coats and gowns, and red
sugar-loaf caps, curled at the tops like old Irish  birredhs ,
dancing and singing, and nice little pipers and fiddlers, perched up in a
little gallery by themselves, and playing music to help out the
singing. 
 He was a little cowed at first, but as he found no one taking notice of
him, he stole in, and sat in a corner, and thought he'd never be tired
looking at the fine little people figuring, and cutting capers, and
singing. But at last he began to find the singing and music a little
tedious. It was nothing but two short bars and four words, and this was
the style: 
 Yae Luan, yae Morth -- 
Yae Luan, yae Morth. 
 The longer he looked on, the bolder he grew, and at last he shouted at
the end of the verse: 
 Agus Dha Haed-yeen. 
 Oh, such cries of delight as rose up among the merry little gentry!
They began the improved song, and shouted it till the vault rang: 
 Yae Luan, yae Morth -- 
Yae Luan, yae Morth -- 
Yae Luan, yae Morth, 
Agus Dha Haed-yeen.  {footnote 2} 
 After a few minutes, they all left off the dance, and gathered round
the boss maker, and thanked him for improving their tune. "Now," said the
chief, "if you with for anything, only say the word, and, if it is in our
power, it must be done." 
 "I thank you, ladies and gentlemen," says he; "and if you would only
remove this hump from my back, I'd be the happiest man in the
Duffrey." 
 "Oh, easy done, easy done!" said they. "Go on again with the dance, and
you come along with us." So on they went with: 
 Monday, Tuesday -- 
Monday, Tuesday -- 
Monday, Tuesday. 
And Wednesday too. 
 One fairy taking their new friend by the heel, shot him in a curve to
the very roof, and down he came the other side of the hall. Another gave
him a shove, and up he flew back again. He felt as if he had wings; and
one time when his back touched the roof, he found a sudden delightful
change in himself; and just as he touched the ground, he lost all memory
of everything around him. 
 Next morning he was awakened by the sun shining on his face from over
Slieve Buie, and he had a delightful feel down along his body instead of
the disagreeable  cruith  he was accustomed to. He felt as if he
could go from that to the other side of the stream at one step, and he
burned little daylight till he reached Glanamoin. He had some trouble to
persuade the neighbors of the truth of what had happened; but the wonder
held only nine days; and he had like to lose his health along with his
hump, for if he only made his appearance in Ballycarney, Castle-Dockrell,
Ballindaggin, Kilmeashil, or Bunclody, ten people would be inviting him to
a share of a tumbler of punch, or a quart of mulled beer. 
 The news of the wonderful cure was talked of high and low, and even
went as far as Ballynocrish, in Bantry, where another poor
 angashore  of a humpback lived. But he was very unlike the Duffrey
man in his disposition: he was as cross as a brier, and almost begrudged
his right hand to help his left. His poor old aunt and a neighbor of hers
set out one day, along with him, along the Bunclody road, passing by
Killanne and the old place of the Colcloughs at Duffrey Hall, till they
reached Temple-shambo. Then they kept along the hilly by-road till they
reached the little man's house near the pass. 
 So they up and told their business, and he gave them a kind welcome,
and explained all the ins and outs of his adventure; and the end was, the
four went together in the heel of the evening to the rath, and left the
little lord in his glory in the dry, brown grass of the round dyke, where
the other met his good fortune. The little  ounkran  never once
thanked them for all the trouble they were taking for him. He only
whimpered about being left in that lonesome place, and bade them to be
sure to be with him at the flight of night, because he did not know what
way to take from it. 
 At last, the poor cross creature fell asleep; and after dreaming about
falling down from rocks, and being held over the sea by his hump, and then
that a lion had him by the same hump, and was running away with him, and
then that it was put up for a target for soldiers to shoot at, the first
volley they gave awoke him, and what was it but the music of the fairies
in full career. The melody was the same as it was left them by the
hivemaker, and the tune and dancing was twice as good as it was at first.
This is the way it went: 
 Yae Luan, yae Morth -- 
Yae Luan, yae Morth -- 
Yae Luan, yae Morth, 
Agus Dha Haed-yeen. 
 But the new visitor had neither taste nor discretion; so when they came
about the third time to the last line, he croaked out: 
 Agus Dha Yærd-yeen 
Agus Dha Haen-ya.  {footnote 3} 
 It was the same as a cross fiddler that finds nobody going to give him
anything, and makes a harsh back-screak of his bow along one of the
strings. A thousand voices cried out, "Who stops our dance? Who stops our
dance?" And all gathered round the poor fellow. He could do nothing but
stare at them with his poor, cross, frightened face; and they screamed and
laughed till he thought it was all over with him. 
 But it was  not  over with him. 
 "Bring down that hump," says the king; and before you could kiss your
hand it was clapped on, as fast as the knocker of Newgate, over the other
hump. The music was over now, the lights went out, and the poor creature
lay till morning in a nightmare; and there the two women found him, at
daybreak, more dead than alive. 
 It was a dismal return they had to Ballynocrish; and the moral of my
story is, that you should never drive till you first try the virtue of
leading.