There was once a little boy who was growing old, but he was not growing up. When he was four years he could go into a thimble, and when he was six he was no bigger than a daisy. His poor parents did not know what to do with him. They used to say, "Poor Tom Thumb."  
At last a kind giant who lived a long way off got to hear of Tom Thumb. The giant was so tall that he hid the light of the sun, and whenever he passed by, the people thought the night had come.  
The big giant said "Come along Tom, you will soon be as big as your father."  
He caught poor Tom up, put him sitting on his ear and carried him off. Tom stayed with the giant for twelve years and lived on giant's food. By this time he was as big as his father but by far stronger. The giant's food had given him a giant's strength.  
"You may go off now," said the giant at the end of twelve years. "You are as big as your father and as strong as myself. You may go off now and seek your fortune."  
Tom's father or mother did not know him when he came back, and he did not tell them who he was. The two old people were living together in a tiny little house, and they were as poor as could be. Their farm had been taken from them by a cruel blacksmith. When Tom Thumb heard this he went to the blacksmith and asked for work.  
"What wages do you want?" said the smith.  
"I want no wages at all," said Tom. "All I want is that you let me give you a few taps on the shoulder every evening."  
"You can do that," said the smith.  
So Tom started to work. The first blow he struck broke the anvil into many pieces, and the second knocked the roof off the forge.  
"Stop," said the smith, "you'll work here no longer."  
"I'll have my day's wages then," said Tom.  
He struck the blacksmith a blow on the shoulder and put him over a cock of hay.  
"That's one half of my wages paid," said Tom. "Shall I take the other half?"  
"Don't strike me again," said the smith. I'll give you anything you ask if you leave me alone," said the smith.  
"All right," said Tom Thumb. "Give me my father's farm and a purse of gold."  
Tom got the gold and build a big house for his father and mother. They lived comfortably again as long as they lived.  
   
 
Informant: Máire Ní Chuinneagáin 
Age: 21.  
Occupation: Domestic worker.  
Address: Kilgill, Co. Galway.