There was once a tramp, who went plodding his way through a forest. The
distance between the houses was so great that he had little hope of
finding a shelter before the night set in. But all of a sudden he saw some
lights between the trees. He then discovered a cottage, where there was a
fire burning on the hearth. "How nice it would be to roast one's self
before that fire, and to get a bite of something," he thought; and so he
dragged himself towards the cottage. 
 Just then an old woman came towards him. 
 "Good evening, and well met!" said the tramp. 
 "Good evening," said the woman. "Where do you come from?" 
 "South of the sun, and east of the moon," said the tramp, "and now I am
on the way home again, for I have been all over the world with the
exception of this parish," he said. 
 "You must be a great traveler, then," said the woman. "What may be your
business here?" 
 "Oh, I want a shelter for the night," he said. 
 "I thought as much," said the woman; "but you may as well get away from
here at once, for my husband is not at home, and my place is not an inn,"
she said. 
 "My good woman," said the tramp, "you must not be so cross and
hardhearted, for we are both human beings, and should help one another, it
is written." 
 "Help one another?" said the woman. "Help? Did you ever hear such a
thing? Who'll help me, do you think? I haven't got a morsel in the house!
No, you'll have to look for quarters elsewhere," she said. 
 But the tramp was like the rest of his kind. He did not consider
himself beaten at the first rebuff. Although the old woman grumbled and
complained as much as she could, he was just as persistent as ever, and
went on begging and praying like a starved dog, until at last she gave in,
and he got permission to lie on the floor for the night. 
 That was very kind, he thought, and he thanked her for it. 
 "Better on the floor without sleep, than suffer cold in the forest
deep," he said, for he was a merry fellow, this tramp, and was always
ready with a rhyme. 
 When he came into the room he could see that the woman was not so badly
off as she had pretended. But she was a greedy and stingy woman of the
worst sort, and was always complaining and grumbling. 
 He now made himself very agreeable, of course, and asked her in his
most insinuating manner for something to eat. 
 "Where am I to get it from?" said the woman. "I haven't tasted a morsel
myself the whole day." 
 But the tramp was a cunning fellow, he was. "Poor old granny, you must
be starving," he said, "Well, well, I suppose I shall have to ask you to
have something with me, then." 
 "Have something with you!" said the woman. "You don't look as if you
could ask anyone to have anything! What have you got to offer one, I
should like to know?" 
 "He who far and wide does roam sees many things not known at home; and
he who many things has seen has wits about him and senses keen," said the
tramp. "Better dead than lose one's head! Lend me a pot, granny!" 
 The old woman now became very inquisitive, as you may guess, and so she
let him have a pot. He filled it with water and put it on the fire, and
then he blew with all his might till the fire was burning fiercely all
round it Then he took a four-inch nail from his pocket, turned it three
times in his hand and put it into the pot. 
 The woman stared with all her might. "What's this going to be?" she
asked. 
 "Nail broth," said the tramp. 
 The old woman had seen and heard a good deal in her time, but that
anybody could have made broth with a nail, well, she had never heard the
like before. 
 "That's something for poor people to know," she said, "and I should
like to learn how to make it." 
 "That which is not worth having, will always go a-begging," said the
tramp. 
 But if she wanted to learn how to make it she had only to watch him, he
said, and went on stirring the broth. The old woman squatted on the
ground, her hands clasping her knees, and her eyes following his hand as
he stirred the broth. 
 "This generally makes good broth," he said, "but this time it will very
likely be rather thin, for I have been making broth the whole week with
the same nail. If one only had a handful of sifted oatmeal to put in, that
would make it all right," he said. "But what one has to go without, it's
no use thinking more about," and so he stirred the broth again. 
 "Well, I think I have a scrap of flour somewhere," said the old woman,
and went out to fetch some, and it was both good and fine. The tramp began
putting the flour into the broth, and went on stirring, while the woman
sat staring now at him and then at the pot until her eyes nearly burst
their sockets. 
 "This broth would be good enough for company," he said, putting in one
handful of flour after another. "If I had only a bit of salted beef and a
few potatoes to put in, it would be fit for gentlefolks, however
particular they might be," he said. "But what one has to go without, it's
no use thinking more about." 
 When the old woman really began to think it over, she thought she had
some potatoes, and perhaps a bit of beef as well, and these she gave the
tramp, who went on stirring, while she sat and stared as hard as ever. 
 "This will be grand enough for the best in the land," he said. 
 "Well, I never!" said the woman, "and just fancy -- all with a nail!"
He was really a wonderful man, that tramp! He could do more than drink a
sup and turn the tankard up, he could. 
 "If one had only a little barley and a drop of milk, we could ask the
king himself to have some of it," he said, "for this is what he has every
blessed evening -- that I know, for I have been in service under the
king's cook" he said. 
 "Dear me! Ask the king to have some! Well, I never!" exclaimed the
woman, slapping her knees. She was quite awestruck at the tramp and his
grand connections. 
 "But what one has to go without, it's no use thinking more about." 
 And then she remembered she had a little barley; and as for milk, well,
she wasn't quite out of that, she said, for her best cow had just calved.
And then she went to fetch both the one and the other. 
 The tramp went on stirring, and the woman sat staring, one moment at
him and the next at the pot. 
 Then all at once the tramp took out the nail. "Now it's ready, and now
we'll have a real good feast," he said. "But to this kind of soup the king
and the queen always take a dram or two, and one sandwich at least. And
then they always have a cloth on the table when they eat," he said. "But
what one has to go without, it's no use thinking more about." 
 But by this time the old woman herself had begun to feel quite grand
and fine, I can tell you. And if that was all that was wanted to make it
just as the king had it, she thought it would be nice to have it just the
same way for once, and play at being king and queen with the tramp. She
went straight to a cupboard and brought out the brandy bottle, dram
glasses, butter and cheese, smoked beef and veal, until at last the table
looked as if it were decked out for company. 
 Never in her life had the old woman had such a grand feast, and never
had she tasted such broth, and just fancy, made only with a nail! She was
in such a good and merry humor at having learnt such an economical way of
making broth that she did not know how to make enough of the tramp who had
taught her such a useful thing. So they ate and drank, and drank and ate,
until they become both tired and sleepy. 
 The tramp was now going to lie down on the floor. But that would never
do, thought the old woman. No, that was impossible. "Such a grand person
must have a bed to lie in," she said. 
 He did not need much pressing. "It's just like the sweet
Christmastime," he said, "and a nicer woman I never came across. Ah, well!
Happy are they who meet with such good people," said he, and he lay down
on the bed and went asleep. 
 And next morning when he woke, the first thing he got was coffee and a
dram. When he was going, the old woman gave him a bright dollar piece.
"And thanks, many thanks, for what you have taught me," she said. "Now I
shall live in comfort, since I have learnt how to make broth with a
nail." 
 "Well it isn't very difficult, if one only has something good to add to
it," said the tramp as he went on his way. 
 The woman stood at the door staring after him. "Such people don't grow
on every bush," she said.