Many stories are told about the road between Clausthal and Goslar, 
including the following one.  Many years ago, when the roads around here 
were very poor, a woman went to Goslar every week to bring back 
earthenware to sell.  She left here early in the morning, often not 
returning until after nightfall. 
One time she stayed in Goslar longer than usual, not leaving until it was 
already half dark.  But she knew every step of the way, so she lifted her 
pack basket filled with earthenware to her back, and proceeded merrily on 
her way toward Clausthal.  It was slow work going uphill, but at last she 
reached the summit where the Zipollen field is. 
Tired from her heavy load and the long uphill climb, she decided to sit 
down and take a decent rest.  Suddenly she saw a large fire and noticed 
some people.  Thinking they must be charcoal burners or woodcutters, and 
being very thirsty, she approached them to ask for some water to drink.  
But as she came closer, she saw to her great fear that it was a giant 
huntsman and his companions seated around the fire--a terrifying sight. 
They were roasting a huge stag on a spit above the fire.  But worst of 
all, some horribly large dogs were running about, and they suddenly 
chased up to her, jumping at her until she could feel their hot breath, 
and snapping at her coat as though they wanted to tear her apart.  The 
men just sat there, paying no heed to the terrified woman.  Everything 
was so uncanny, so quiet. 
She ran as fast as she could to escape from the beasts' claws.  She ran, 
driven by terror, until she at last collapsed and lay there unconscious 
beneath her pack basket. 
When she finally awoke she saw a man standing over her.  He was wearing a 
green miner's hat and a black jacket, and was carrying a large torch in 
his hand.  He helped her up and asked her what she needed.  She tearfully 
told him what had happened and that because of her running and her fall 
her earthenware had probably broken to pieces.  She was very poor, and 
all that she owned was invested in this trade, and today in particular, 
it was all in this pack basket.  Now everything was in pieces, and she 
did not know what she would do. 
The juryman, for this is who the woman thought was standing before her, 
felt sorry for her.  He pulled her coat away from her pack basket and 
looked inside with his torch.  He told her that everything was in order.  
Then wishing her good luck [He uses the expression "Glückauf," a 
traditional miner's greeting.], he set off in the direction of Goslar. 
The woman, filled with sorrow and feeling like she had been beaten, 
continued on her way to Clausthal.  It was after daybreak when she 
arrived home.  She went into her little kitchen, set her pack basket on 
the table, and fell exhausted onto the bench.  But she could not resist 
looking into the pack basket to see what had happened to her earthenware, 
to see if anything could be salvaged. 
Looking inside, she was startled to see, instead of broken pieces, or 
pots and jars, nothing but shiny coins.  She immediately ran to her 
landlady, a clever old woman.  After hearing the story, she said, "Those 
beings by the fire were the wild huntsman with his followers and his 
dogs.  The juryman, however, was the Mine-Monk.  Consider yourself lucky 
that you escaped alive."  
The woman used the money to buy a small house and a few cows.  And from 
that time forth she never again brought earthenware from Goslar.