I have often had this tale told to me by my nurse when a child, and heard 
the following version a short time ago in Holderness [Yorkshire], and was 
informed it had been told thus for ages:  
 
There was a stepmother who was very unkind to her stepdaughter and very 
kind to her own daughter; and used to send her stepdaughter to do all the 
dirty work. One day she sent her to the pump for some water when a little 
frog came up through the sink and asked her not to pour dirty water down, 
as his drawing room was there. So she did not; and as a reward, he said 
pearls and diamonds should drop from her mouth when she spoke.   
When she returned home it happened as he said; and the stepmother, 
learning how it had come about, sent her own daughter to the pump. When 
she got there the little frog spoke to her and asked her not to throw 
dirty water down, and she replied, "Oh! you nasty, dirty little thing, I 
won't do as you ask me."   
Then the frog said, "Whenever you speak, frogs, and toads, and snakes 
shall drop from your mouth."   
She went home and it happened as the frog had said. At night when they 
were sitting at the table a little voice was heard singing outside:  
  
Come bring me my supper,   
My own sweet, sweet one. 
 
  
When the stepdaughter went to the door, there was the little frog. She 
brought him in in spite of her stepmother, took him on her knee, and fed 
him with bits from her plate. After a while he sang:  
  
Come, let us go to bed,   
My own sweet, sweet one. 
 
  
So, unknown to her stepmother, she laid him at the foot of her bed, as she 
said he was a poor, harmless thing. Then she fell asleep and forgot all 
about him.   
Next morning there stood a beautiful prince, who said he had been 
enchanted by a wicked fairy and was to be a frog till a girl would let him 
sleep with her. They were married, and lived happily in his beautiful 
castle ever after.  
  
This is one of the few folk stories I have been able to collect from the 
lips of a living storyteller in England.