A moujik was driving along one night with a load of pots. His horse
grew tired, and all of a sudden it came to a stand-still alongside of a
graveyard. The moujik unharnessed his horse and set it free to graze;
meanwhile he laid himself down on one of the graves. But somehow he didn't
go to sleep.
 He remained lying there some time. Suddenly the grave began to open
beneath him: he felt the movement and sprang to his feet. The grave
opened, and out of it came a corpse -- wrapped in a white shroud, and
holding a coffin lid -- came out and ran to the church, laid the
coffin-lid at the door, and then set off for the village.
 The moujik was a daring fellow. He picked up the coffin-lid and
remained standing beside his cart, waiting to see what would happen. After
a short delay the dead man came back, and was going to snatch up his
coffin-lid -- but it was not to be seen. Then the corpse began to track it
out, traced it up to the moujik, and said:
 "Give me my lid: if you don't, I'll tear you to bits!"
 "And my hatchet, how about that?" answers the moujik. "Why, it's I
who'll be chopping you into small pieces!"
 "Do give it back to me, good man!" begs the corpse.
 "I'll give it when you tell me where you've been and what you've done."
 "Well, I've been in the village, and there I've killed a couple of
youngsters."
 "Well then, now tell me how they can be brought back to life."
 The corpse reluctantly made answer:
 "Cut off the left skirt of my shroud, and take it with you. When you
come into the house where the youngsters were killed, pour some live coals
into a pot and put the piece of the shroud in with them, and then lock the
door. The lads will be revived by the smoke immediately."
 The moujik cut off the left skirt of the shroud, and gave up the
coffin-lid. The corpse went to its grave -- the grave opened. But just as
the dead man was descending into it, all of a sudden the cocks began to
crow, and he hadn't time to get properly covered over. One end of the
coffin-lid remained sticking out of the ground.
 The moujik saw all this and made a note of it. The day began to dawn;
he harnessed his horse and drove into the village.
 In one of the houses he heard cries and wailing. In he went -- there
lay two dead lads.
 "Don't cry," says he, "I can bring them to life!"
 "Do bring them to life, kinsman," say their relatives. "We'll give you
half of all we possess."
 The moujik did everything as the corpse had instructed him, and the
lads came back to life. Their relatives were delighted, but they
immediately seized the moujik and bound him with cords, saying:
 "No, no, trickster! We'll hand you over to the authorities. Since you
knew how to bring them back to life, maybe it was you who killed them!"
 "What are you thinking about, true believers! Have the fear of God
before your eyes!" cried the moujik.
 Then he told them everything that had happened during the night. Well,
they spread the news through the village; the whole population assembled
and swarmed into the graveyard. They found out the grave from which the
dead man had come out, they tore it open, and they drove an aspen stake
right into the heart of the corpse, so that it might no more rise up and
slay. But they rewarded the moujik richly, and sent him away home with
great honor.