Hedgehog 
 
 I do not know how he managed it, but a fox one day got into a poultry 
yard, and there he ate his fill. Some time afterwards, going along to the 
poultry yard, the hedgehog met him.  
 "Where are you going, brother?"  
 "I am going to eat my fill."  
 "Surely you cannot get it just as you like."  
 "Oh," he said, "you just come with me, and I will show you. I know my 
way, and there is plenty for me and for you, and some to leave behind for 
another time."  
 The hedgehog, who was a wise old fellow, said to the fox, "Now, be 
careful. Are you sure that the owners of the poultry yard will let you in 
again so easily?"  
 "Don't you trouble," said the fox. "I know my business. You just come 
with me."  
 And the hedgehog went with him. But the people of the poultry yard were 
not such fools as the fox had taken them for, and just where the fox had 
got in last time they had dug a deep pit, and into that the fox and the 
hedgehog tumbled.  
 When they found themselves at the bottom of the pit, the hedgehog 
turned to the fox and said, "Well, you clever fellow, is that the proper 
way to get into the poultry yard? Did I not warn you?"  
 "What is the good of talking?" replied the fox. "We are here now, and 
we must see how to get out of it."  
 "But you are so clever, and I am only a poor old fool."  
 "Never mind. You were always a wise one. Can you help me?"  
 "No," he said. "I cannot help you. This sudden fall has upset me, and I 
feel queer and sick."  
 "What," cried the fox. "You are not going to be sick here. That is more 
than I can stand. Out you go!"  
 So he got hold of the hedgehog by the snout, and the hedgehog coiled 
himself up with his little paws into a little ball round the fox's mouth. 
The fox lifted up his head with a jerk and threw the little fellow out of 
the pit.  
 As soon as he saw himself safely out of the pit, the little hedgehog, 
bending over the mouth of the pit, said, chuckling to the fox, "Where is 
your wisdom, you fool? You boast that you have a bagful of wits, whilst it 
is I who get myself out of the pit, though I have only a little wit."  
 "Oh," said the fox, whining, "do have pity on me! You are such a clever 
old fellow. Help me out of it too."  
 "Well, said the hedgehog, "I will help you. Now, you pretend to be 
dead, and when the people come and find you stiff and stark, and a nasty 
smell about you, they will say, 'The fox has died, and his carcass is 
rotting. It is going to make all the poultry yard offensive.' They will 
take you and throw you out. And then see whither your way lies."  
 The fox did as the hedgehog had advised him, and when the people came 
and found him in that state, they hauled him out and threw him out of the 
yard onto the road. Quicker than you could clap your hands, the fox was on 
his legs, and he ran as if the ground was burning under him.  
 Since then the fox and the hedgehog are good friends.