Shemus Rua (Red James) awakened from his sleep one night by noises in his
kitchen.  Stealing to the door, he saw half-a-dozen old women sitting
round the fire, jesting and laughing, his old housekeeper, Madge, quite
frisky and gay, helping her sister crones to cheering glasses of punch. 
He began to admire the impudence and imprudence of Madge, displayed in the
invitation and the riot, but recollected on the instant her officiousness
in urging him to take a comfortable posset, which she had brought to his
bedside just before he fell asleep.  Had he drunk it, he would have been
just now deaf to the witches' glee.  He heard and saw them drink his
health in such a mocking style as nearly to tempt him to charge them,
besom in hand, but he restrained himself. 
The jug being emptied, one of them cried out, "Is it time to be gone?" and
at the same moment, putting on a red cap, she added -- 
 
Hie over to England.
 
Making use of a twig which she held in her hand as a steed, she gracefully
soared up the chimney, and was rapidly followed by the rest.  But when it
came to the housekeeper, Shemus interposed.  "By your leave, ma'am," said
he, snatching twig and cap.  "Ah, you desateful ould crocodile!  If I find
you here on my return, there'll be wigs on the green-- 
 
Hie over to England."
 
The words were not out of his mouth when he was soaring above the ridge
pole, and swiftly plowing the air.  He was careful to speak no word (being
somewhat conversant with witch-lore), as the result would be a tumble, and
the immediate return of the expedition. 
In a very short time they had crossed the Wicklow hills, the Irish Sea,
and the Welsh mountains, and were charging, at whirlwind speed, the hall
door of a castle.  Shemus, only for the company in which he found himself,
would have cried out for pardon, expecting to be  mummy   against the
hard oak door in a moment; but, all bewildered, he found himself passing
through the keyhole, along a passage, down a flight of steps, and through
a cellar-door key-hole before he could form any clear idea of his
situation. 
Waking to the full consciousness of his position, he found himself sitting
on a stallion, plenty of lights glimmering round, and he and his
companions, with full tumblers of frothing wine in hand, hob-nobbing and
drinking healths as jovially and recklessly as if the liquor was honestly
come be, and they were sitting in Shemus's own kitchen.  The red birredh
[cap] has assimilated Shemus's nature for the time being to that of his
unholy companions. 
The heady liquors soon got into their brains, and a period of
unconsciousness succeeded the ecstasy, the headache, the turning round of
the barrels, and the "scattered sight" of poor Shemus.  He woke up under
the impression of being roughly seized, and shaken, and dragged upstairs,
and subjected to a disagreeable examination by the lord of the castle, in
his state parlor.  There was much derision among the whole company, gentle
and simple, on hearing Shemus's explanation, and, as the thing occurred in
the dark ages, the unlucky Leinster man was sentenced to be hung as soon
as the gallows could be prepared for the occasion. 
The poor Hibernian was in the cart proceeding on his last journey, with a
label on his back, and another on his breast, announcing him as the
remorseless villain who for the last month had been draining the casks in
my lord's vault every night. 
He was surprised to hear himself addressed by his name, and in his native
tongue, by an old woman in the crows.  "Ach, Shemus, alanna! is it going
to die you are in a strange place without your  cappen d'yarrag  
[red cap]?  These words infused hope and courage into the poor victim's
heart.  He turned to the lord and humbly asked leave to die in his red
cap, which he supposed had dropped from his head in the vault.  A servant
was sent for the head-piece, and Shemus felt lively hope warming his heart
while placing it on his head. 
On the platform he was graciously allowed to address the spectators, which
he proceeded to do so in the usual formula composed for the benefit of
flying stationers -- "Good people all, a warning take by me;"  but when he
had finished the line, "My parents reared me tenderly," he unexpectedly
added -- "By yarrow and rue," etc., and the disappointed spectators saw
him shoot up obliquely though the air in the style of a sky-rocket that
had missed its aim. 
It is said that the lord gook the circumstance much to heart, and never
afterwards hung a man for twenty-four hours after his offense.