By using a so-called wolf strap, any person could transform himself 
into a werewolf. Whoever fastened such a strap around himself would turn 
into a wolf. If someone called out the name of a person who had turned 
himself into a wolf, that person would regain his human form.  
 In earlier times there were a great many such straps, but today, along 
with the wolves, they seem to have been banned to Russia.  
 A wolf strap was a gift from the devil. A person who possessed such a 
strap could not get rid of it, however much he wanted to. Anyone who 
accepted a wolf strap also had entered into brotherhood with the devil, 
surrendering body and soul to him.  
 If real wolves were feared in earlier times, werewolves were feared all 
the more. A real wolf could be shot dead or lured into a so-called wolf 
pit, where it would perish from hunger. However, a werewolf could not be 
brought down with a rifle bullet, nor would it ever fall into a wolf pit. 
 
 The reader will perhaps ask, "What is the use of running around as a 
werewolf?"  
 This was not done for no good reason. When the pantries and meat 
containers were empty, one would only have to fasten on the wolf strap, 
run off as a wolf, seek out a fat sheep that was wandering off toward the 
edge of the woods, creep towards it, seize it, and drag it into the woods. 
In the evening one could bring it home without anyone noticing. Or the 
werewolf would know when a peasant was going through the woods with a lot 
of money. He would ambush him, rob him, then run off across the field with 
the booty.  
 In earlier times, after the horses had been unhitched from a wagon or a 
plow, they would be driven out to a community pasture where they would be 
watched until morning by two herdsmen. Even colts were put out for the 
night. People took turns watching after them.  
 Now once it happened that one of the two herdsmen had a wolf strap. 
After both herdsmen had kept watch for several hours they got sleepy and 
laid their heads down. The first one, however, who had heard that his 
companion possessed a wolf strap, only pretended to be asleep, and the 
other one thought that he was indeed sleeping. He quickly fastened the 
strap around himself and ran off as a wolf. The other one got up and saw 
how his companion ran up to a colt, attacked it, and devoured it.  
 After this had happened, the wolf man came back and lay down to sleep. 
Toward morning they both awoke. The werewolf man was rolling around on the 
ground and groaning loudly. The other one asked him what was wrong.  
 He said that he had a horrible stomach ache.  
 To this the first one said, "The devil himself would have a stomach 
ache if he had eaten an entire colt at one time."  
 The werewolf asked him to say nothing about what had happened. He kept 
silent about it for a long time, but later he did tell me about it, and 
now I too feel free to tell about it, because both men have been dead for 
a long time.