Once upon a time there was a peasant family who had a watchdog named
Sultan among their household animals. The dog grew old, and, thinking that
he could no longer properly attend to to his duties, the peasant chased
him away. Dejected and with his head hanging low, the dog left the
village, complaining to himself, "So this is my reward for loyalty at a
difficult job. After using up my youthful and energetic years at work,
they chase me away and grant me no rest now that I am old and weak."  
 He sadly went his way, wandering aimlessly about for many days without
finding any tolerable shelter. Emaciated and weak from his long journey,
he came to a forest. A wolf came out of the forest, ran up to the poor
dog, and cried, "Stop, old fellow! Beware, you are now in my power." 
 Hearing the wolf speak in this manner, the frightened old Sultan said,
"Dear friend, just take a good look at me, and your appetite for me will
disappear. I would make the worst roast you have ever had, for I am
nothing but skin and bones. But I do have some advice for you." 
 The wolf said, "I don't need any advice from you, you miserable
creature. I know what you will say even before you speak, namely that I
should let you live. No, I won't change my mind. The long and the short of
it is that I am going to eat you." 
 To this the dog answered, "I wouldn't think of asking that of you, for
I do not want to live any longer. Bite away as long as you want to. But I
still have good advice for you. Wouldn't it be better to fatten me up
before eating me? You wouldn't loose anything on the feed, because you
would get it all back on me. Then I'd make a decent roast. What do you
think, Brother Wolf?" 
 The wolf spoke, "I'll do it, if the feeding doesn't take too long.
Follow me to my hut." 
 The dog did this, and together they went deeper into the woods.
Arriving at the hut, Sultan crept inside, while the wolf went forth to
hunt some game for the weak dog. When he returned, he threw his capture to
Sultan, who ate it with relish. 
 The next day the wolf came and spoke to the dog, "Yesterday you ate.
Today I will eat." 
 The dog replied, "What are you thinking of, dear wolf? I scarcely felt
yesterday's food in my stomach." 
 To be sure, this irritated the wolf, but he had to be happy with going
into the woods again to hunt game for the dog. With similar responses, our
Sultan put off the wolf as long as he was not strong enough to take on the
wolf. The wolf continued to hunt and to bring the dog whatever he
captured, eating little or nothing himself so that Sultan would have
enough. Thus the dog grew ever stronger, while the opposite was true for
the wolf. 
 On the sixth day the wolf came to the dog and spoke, "I believe that
you are ready now." 
 Sultan answered, "Yes indeed. To be sure, I feel so well that I will
take you on unless you set me free." 
 The wolf spoke, "You are joking! Just think, I have been feeding you
for six days now, while eating nothing myself. Now am I to go away with
nothing? That will never do!" 
 To this Sultan responded, "You are partially right, but does that give
you the right to eat me up?" 
 "That is the right of the strong over the weak," answered the wolf. 
 "Right on!" replied the dog. "And thus you have pronounced judgment on
yourself." With these words he made a daring leap, and before the wolf
knew it, he was lying on the ground, overpowered by Sultan. 
 "Because you allowed me to live, I will not kill you immediately, but
rather submit your life to fate. Choose two companions, and I will do the
same. Tomorrow come to this place in the woods with them, and we will
settle our dispute." 
 The two separated to seek out their fellow warriors. Angrily, the wolf
went deeper into the woods. The dog hurried to the nearest village. After
much pleading, the wolf got an ill-tempered, grumbling bear and a sly fox
to be his comrades. 
 Our Sultan ran first to the parsonage, where he talked a large gray cat
into going with him. Then he went to the town judge's barnyard where he
found a brave rooster as a second fellow warrior.  
 It was just getting light, and the dog was already underway with his
two companions. They had what they needed. He might even surprise his
enemies while they were still deep in sleep. 
 The wolf was the first one to awaken. He woke his comrades, then said
to the bear, "You can climb trees, can't you? Be so good as to climb that
tall fir tree and see if you can't get a glimpse of our enemies." 
 The bear did this, and from the top of the tree he cried down, "Flee!
Our enemies are very near, and what powerful enemies they are! One of them
is riding proudly along, carrying many sharp sabers. They glisten strongly
in the morning sun. Another one is walking stealthily after him, pulling a
long iron rod behind. Woe unto us!" 
 The fox was so frightened at these words, that he decided it would be
advisable to make himself scarce. The bear hurriedly climbed down from the
tree and crept into some thick brush, so that only the tip of his tail was
showing. 
 The enemy was now at hand. The wolf, seeing that his friends had
deserted him, tried to get away, but Sultan confronted him. One leap, and
the dog had the wolf by the back of his neck, and he finished him off.
Meanwhile, the cat noticed the tip of the bear's tail moving in the brush.
Hoping to catch a mouse, she snapped at it. Terrified, the bear jumped
from his hiding place and fled in all haste up a tree, where he thought he
would be safe from the enemy.  
 But he was wrong, because the rooster was there as well. Seeing the
bear in the tree, the rooster jumped from one branch to the next, always
going higher and higher. The bear was beside himself. Terrified, he fell
from the tree and lay there stone dead. And thus the battle ended. 
 The news of the brave deeds of Sultan and his companions spread far and
wide, also to the village where Sultan had formerly served. As a
consequence, the peasant family took back their loyal watchdog and cared
for him.