In a certain town there once lived a couple who
had never had a child. They had been married for nearly five years, and
were very anxious for a son. The name of the wife was Clara; and of the
man, Philip.  One cloudy night in December, while they were talking by
the window of their house, Clara said to her husband that she was going to
pray the  novena  [nine consecutive days of praying], so that heaven
would give them a child. "I would even let my son serve the devil, if he
would but give us a son!"  As her husband was willing that she should
pray the  novena , Clara began the next day her fervent devotions to
the Virgin Mary. She went to church every afternoon for nine days. She
carried a small prayer book with her, and prayed until six o'clock every
evening. At last she finished her  novenario , but no child was born
to them, and the couple was disappointed.  A month had passed, when, to
their great happiness, Clara gave birth to a son. The child they nicknamed
Idó. Idó was greatly cherished by his parents, for he was
their only child; but he did not care much to stay at home. He early began
to show a fondness for travelling abroad, and was always to be found in
the dense woods on the outskirts of the town.  One afternoon, when the
family was gathered together around a small table, talking, a knock was
heard at the door.  "Come in!" said Philip.  "No, I just want to talk
with your wife," answered a hoarse voice from without.  Clara,
trembling, opened the door, and, to her great surprise, she saw standing
there a man who looked like a bear.  
"A devil, a devil!" she exclaimed.
 But the devil pacified her, and said, "Clara, I have come here to get
your son you promised me a long time ago. Now that the day has come when
your son can be of some service to me, will you deny your promise?"
 Clara could make no reply at first. She merely called her son; and when
he came, she said to the devil, "Here is my son. Take him, since he is
yours."  Idó, who was at this time about seventeen years old, was
not frightened by the devil.  
"Come," said the devil, "and be my
follower!"  At first Idó refused. But he finally consented to go,
because of his mother's promise.  
The devil now took Idó to his
cave, far away outside the town. He tried in many ways to tempt
Idó, but was unable to do so, because Idó was a youth of
strong character. Finally the devil decided to exchange clothes with him.
Idó was obliged to put on the bear-like clothes of the devil and to
give him his own soldier suit.  
Then the devil produced a large bag full
of money, and said to Idó, "Take this money and go traveling about
the world for seven years. If you live to the end of that time, and spend
this money only in doing good, I will set you free. If, however, you spend
the money extravagantly, you will have to go to hell with me." When had
said these words, he disappeared.  
Idó now began his wanderings
from town to town. Whenever people saw him, they were afraid of him, and
would refuse to give him shelter; but Idó would give them money
from his bag, and then they would gather about him and be kind to him.
 
After many years he happened to come to a town where he saw an old
woman summoned before a court of justice. She was accused of owing a sum
of money, but was unable to pay her debt and the fine imposed on her.
 
When Idó paid her fine for her and thus released her from
prison, the woman could hardly express her gratitude. As most of the other
people about were afraid of Idó and he had no place to sleep, this
woman decided to take him home with her.  
Now, this old woman had three
daughters. When she reached home with the bear-like man, she called her
eldest daughter, and said, "Now, my daughter, here is a man who delivered
me from prison. As I can do nothing to reward him for his great kindness,
I want you to take him for your husband."  The daughter replied,
"Mother, why have you brought this ugly man here? No, I cannot marry him.
I can find a better husband."  On hearing this harsh reply, the mother
could not say a word. She called her second daughter, and explained her
wishes to her; but the younger daughter refused, just as her sister had
refused, and she made fun of the man.  
The mother was very much
disappointed, but she was unable to persuade her daughters to marry her
benefactor. Finally she determined to try her youngest daughter. When the
daughter heard her mother's request, she said, "Mother, if to have me
marry this man is the only way by which you can repay him for his
kindness, I'll gladly marry him."  
The mother was very much pleased, but
the two older daughters were very angry with their sister. The mother told
the man of the decision of her youngest daughter, and a contract was
signed between them. But before they were married, the bear-like man asked
permission from the girl to be absent for one more year to finish his
duty. She consented to his going, and gave him half her ring as a memento.
 At the end of the year, which was the last of his seven years'
wandering, the bear-like man went to the devil, and told him that he had
finished his duty.  
The devil said, "You have beaten me. Now that you
have performed your seven years' wandering, and have spent the money
honestly, let us exchange clothes again!"  
So the man received back his soldier-like suit, which made him look like a knight, and the devil took back his bearskin.   
Then the man returned to Clara's house. When his
arrival was announced to the family, the two older daughters dressed
themselves in their best, for they thought that he was a suitor come to
see them. But when the man showed the ring and asked for the hand of
Clara's youngest daughter, the two nearly died with vexation, while the
youngest daughter was very happy.