Examples of Printed Folk-Lore Concerning the Orkney &
Shetland Islands    
Two married brothers were living in one house, and the wife of one was
expecting
to become a mother.  Her brother-in-law, being informed of what was going
on,
took up a fishing rod and set off to the Craigs (crag-fishing) to be out
of the
way.   
He had to pass a plantiecrü, the favorite haunt of many Trows, and
when he
got there he saw a number of them going as if towards his house.   
Jaimie instantly turned back, for he knew that they had power at such
times, and
the   saining   might be neglected.  Hurrying home he went and opened
his
trunk, took out a Bible, laid it near the door, and left the key in the
lock. 
Making sure that no door or box was locked in the house (for that angers
the
Trows and they have power when a key is turned), and exhorting the
güde
wives assembled not to allow their patient to go past the fireplace,
Jaimie
walked off, intending to visit a neighbor instead of venturing near the
plantiecrü again.   
But by that time the Trows had got near and found out that he had guarded
the
way to their coveted treasure, so they took all power from him as soon as
he got
a stone's throw from his own door.  At that place he had to cross a stile
and
when he had got one leg over the stile, he found he could get no farther.
There
he sat without power to move; and he sat for hours astride the wall.
By-and-by
one of the güde wives came out, and seeing Jaimie sitting like that,
she
cried, "Jaimie, güde be aboot de!  What's do sitting yonder for a'
this
time?"   
As soon as she said "Güde be aboot de" the power to move came back
and
Jamie came home to share in the blythe feast.  But that very night a child
of
his took a crying.  It cried and cried for exactly eight days, then it lay
as if
sleeping for eight days, and all folk said that it appeared to be another
child.
 Then Jaimie knew it was a changeling, so he set the cradle outside the
house-door, beyond the shadow of the lintel, and the changeling was no
more. 
There was just an image left lifeless in the cradle.