Once upon a time there lived an old man and an old woman. The old man, who 
had a kind heart, kept a young sparrow, which he tenderly nurtured. But 
the dame was a cross-grained old thing; and one day, when the sparrow had 
pecked at some paste with which she was going to starch her linen, she 
flew into a great rage, and cut the sparrow's tongue and let it loose. 
When the old man came home from the hills and found that the bird had 
flown, he asked what had become of it; so the old woman answered that she 
had cut its tongue and let it go, because it had stolen her starching 
paste.   
Now the old man, hearing this cruel tale, was sorely grieved, and thought 
to himself, "Alas! Where can my bird be gone? Poor thing! Poor little 
tongue-cut sparrow! Where is your home now?" and he wandered far and wide, 
seeking for his pet, and crying, "Mr. Sparrow! Mr. Sparrow! Where are you 
living?"   
One day, at the foot of a certain mountain, the old man fell in with the 
lost bird; and when they had congratulated one another on their mutual 
safety, the sparrow led the old man to his home, and, having introduced 
him to his wife and chicks, set before him all sorts of dainties, and 
entertained him hospitably.   
"Please partake of our humble fare," said the sparrow."Poor as it is, you 
are very welcome."   
"What a polite sparrow!" answered the old man, who remained for a long 
time as the sparrow's guest, and was daily feasted right royally. At last 
the old man said that he must take his leave and return home; and the 
bird, offering him him two wicker baskets, begged him to carry them with 
him as a parting present. One of the baskets was heavy, and the other was 
light; so the old man, saying that as he was feeble and stricken in years 
he would only accept the light one, shouldered it, and trudged off home, 
leaving the sparrow family disconsolate at parting from him.   
When the old man got home, the dame grew very angry, and began to scold 
him, saying, "Well, and pray where have you been this many a day? A pretty 
thing, indeed, to be gadding about at your time of life!"   
"Oh!" replied he, "I have been on a visit to the sparrows; and when I 
came away, they gave me this wicker basket as a parting gift."   
Then they opened the basket to see what was inside, and, lo and behold! it 
was full of gold and silver and precious things. When the old woman, who 
was as greedy as she was cross, saw all the riches displayed before her, 
she changed her scolding strain, and could not contain herself for joy. 
  
"I'll go and call upon the sparrows, too," said she, "and get a pretty 
present." So she asked the old man the way to the sparrows' house, and set 
forth on her journey. Following his directions, she at last met the 
tongue-cut sparrow, and exclaimed, "Well met! well met! Mr. Sparrow. I 
have been looking forward to the pleasure of seeing you." So she tried to 
natter and cajole the sparrow by soft speeches.   
The bird could not but invite the dame to its home; but it took no pains 
to feast her, and said nothing about a parting gift. She, however, was not 
to be put off; so she asked for something to carry away with her in 
remembrance of her visit. The sparrow accordingly produced two baskets, as 
before, and the greedy old woman, choosing the heavier of the two, carried 
it off with her. But when she opened the basket to see what was inside, 
all sorts of hobgoblins and elves sprang out of it, and began to torment 
her.   
But the old man adopted a son, and his family grew rich and prosperous. 
What a happy old man!