Three impostors came to a king, and told him they were cloth-weavers,
and could fabricate a cloth of so peculiar
a nature that a legitimate son of his father could
see the cloth; but if he were illegitimate, though
believed to be legitimate, he could not see it.
  
Now the king was much pleased at this,
thinking that by this means he would be able to
distinguish the men in his kingdom who were legitimate
sons of their supposed fathers from those
who were not, and so be enabled to increase his
treasures, for among the Moors only legitimate
children inherit their father's property; and for
this end he ordered a palace to be appropriated to
the manufacture of this cloth. And these men, in
order to convince him that they had no intention
of deceiving him, agreed to be shut up in this palace
until the cloth was manufactured, which satisfied
the king.
  
When they were supplied with a large quantity
of gold, silver, silk, and many other things, they
entered the palace, and, putting their looms in
order, gave it to be understood that they were
working all day at the cloth.
  
After some days, one of them came to the king
and told him the cloth was commenced, that it was
the most curious thing in the world, describing the
design and construction; he then prayed the king
to favor them with a visit, but begged he would
come alone. 
  
The king was much pleased, but
wishing to have the opinion of some one first, sent
the lord chamberlain to see it, in order to know if
they were deceiving him. 
 
When the lord chamberlain
saw the workmen, and heard all they had to
say, he dared not admit he could not see the cloth,
and when he returned to the king he stated that he
had seen it; the king sent yet another, who gave
the same report. When they whom he had sent
declared that they had seen the cloth he determined
to go himself.
  
On entering the palace and seeing the men at
work, who began to describe the texture and relate
the origin of the invention as also the design and
color, in which they all appeared to agree, although
in reality they were not working; when the king
saw how they appeared to work, and heard the
character of the cloth so minutely described, and
yet could not see it, although those he had sent had
seen it, he began to feel very uneasy, fearing he
might not be the son of the king, who was supposed to be his father, and that if he acknowledged
he could not see the cloth he might lose his kingdom; under this impression he commenced praising
the fabric, describing its peculiarities after the
manner of the workmen.
 
On the return to his palace he related to his
people how good and marvelous was the cloth, yet
at the same time suspected something wrong.
  
At the end of two or three days the king
requested his  Alguacil  
(or officer of justice) to go
and see the cloth. When the  Alguacil  entered and
saw the workmen, who, as before, described the
figures and pattern of the cloth, knowing that the
king had been to see it, and yet could not see it
himself, he thought he certainly could not be the
legitimate son of his father, and therefore could not
see it. He, however, feared if he was to declare that
he could not see it he would lose his honorable
position; to avoid this mischance he commenced praising the cloth even more vehemently than the others.
  
When the  Alguacil  returned to the king and
told him that he had seen the cloth, and that it was
the most extraordinary production in the world, the
king was much disconcerted; for he thought that
if the  Alguacil  had seen the cloth, which he was
unable to see, there could no longer be a doubt that
he was not the legitimate son of the king, as was
generally supposed, he therefore did not hesitate to
praise the excellency of the cloth and the skill of the workmen who were able to make it. 
  
On another day he sent one of his councillors,
and it happened to him as to the king and the
others of whom I have spoken; and in this manner
and for this reason they deceived the king and
many others, for no one dared to say he could not
see the cloth.
  
Things went on thus until there came a great
feast, when all requested the king to be dressed in
some of the cloth; so the workmen, being ordered,
brought some rolled up in a very fine linen and inquired
of the king how much of it he wished them
to cut off; so the king gave orders how much and
how to make it up.
  
Now when the clothes were made and the feast
day had arrived the weavers brought them to the
king, informing his majesty that his dress was made
of the cloth as he had directed, the king all this
time not daring to say he could not see it.
  
When the king had professed to dress himself
in this suit he mounted on horseback and rode into
the city; but fortunately for him it was summertime. The people seeing his majesty come in this
manner were much surprised; but knowing that
those who could not see this cloth would be considered
illegitimate sons of their fathers, kept their
surprise to themselves, fearing the dishonor consequent
upon such a declaration. 
 
Not so, however,
with a negro, who happened to notice the king
thus equipped; for he, having nothing to lose, came
to him and said,
"Sire, to me it matters not whose
son I am, therefore I tell you that you are riding
without any clothes." 
 
On this the king commenced
beating him, saying that he was not the legitimate
son of his supposed father, and therefore it was that
he could not see the cloth. 
 
But no sooner had the
negro said this, than others were convinced of its
truth, and said the same; until, at last, the king and all with him lost their fear of declaring the truth,
and saw through the trick of which these impostors
had made them the victims. 
 
When the weavers were sought for they were found to have fled, taking
with them all they had received from the king by
their imposition.