In times long past there was a very greedy jackal, which used to roam
in the forest, and even in places uninhabited by men. At length he made
his way into the house of a dyer, and fell into an indigo vat. After he
had escaped he lay down to sleep on a neighboring dunghill. Having tossed
about thereon, so that his body became ever so unshapely, he jumped into
the water. When he had come out, and had been exposed to the rays of the
sun, he acquired the color of cyanite. 
 When the other jackals saw him, they dispersed and stood afar off, and
asked, "Who are you? Where do you come from?" 
 He replied, "My name is Sataga, and I have been appointed king of the
four-footed beasts by Sakra, the king of the gods." 
 The jackals considered that, as his body was of a color never before
seen, this must be true, and they made all the four-footed beast
acquainted with the fact.  
 The lions thought, "If someone is exalted above us and made the king of
the beasts, we must go and carry this news to the chief of our band." So
they told the news to the maned chief of their band, who dwelt in a
certain hill district. He ordered the other beasts to go forth and find
out whether any animal had seen this chieftain of the four-footed. So they
betook themselves to where the jackal was, and made inquiries. And they
perceived the jackal, like unto nothing ever seen before, surrounded by
all the four-footed creatures except the lions. Then they returned to
their chief and told him what they had seen. and he, when he had listened
to them, betook himself, surrounded by the band of lions, to where the
jackal was. The jackal, surrounded by many quadrupeds, rode along on an
elephant, with the lions around him, and then the tigers and other
quadrupeds. The jackals formed a circle round him at a greater
distance. 
 Now the jackal's mother dwelt in a certain mountain ravine. Her son
sent a jackal to her, and invited her to come, now that he had obtained
the sovereign power.  
 She asked what was the nature of his surroundings. 
 The messenger replied, "The inner circle is formed of lions, tigers,
and elephants, but the outer of jackals." 
 She said, "So much for things not following their proper order." She
also said in verse:
 
I live here comfortably in the mountain ravine,  
and amid cool waters enjoy my good fortune. 
So long as he utters no jackal's cry,  
the elephant will let him retain his prosperity.
 
 The messenger jackal said to the jackals, "This king of the four-footed
is only another jackal. I have seen his mother who dwells in such a such a
mountain ravine." 
 They replied, "In that case we will test him and see whether he is a
jackal or not." 
 Now it is according to the nature of things that jackals, if they hear
a jackal howl without howling themselves, lose their hair. So the jackal,
when he heard the other jackals lift up their voices, said to himself, "If
I utter no cry, my hair will certainly fall off. But if I get off the
elephant and then begin to howl, he will kill me. So I will lift up my
voice where I am." 
 So soon as, sitting on the elephant, he began to lift up his voice, the
elephant perceived that it was a jackal that was riding on his back, so he
flung him off and trampled him underfoot. 
 A deity uttered this verse:
 
He who keeps at a distance  
those who should be near, 
and brings near those  
who should be at a distance, 
will be cast down,  
as the jackal was by the elephant.