Long ago, at least two thousand years, there was a rich man who had a 
beautiful and pious wife, and they loved each other dearly. However, they 
had 
no children, though they wished very much to have some, and the woman 
prayed 
for them day and night, but they didn't get any, and they didn't get any. 
 
 In front of their house there was a courtyard where there stood a 
juniper 
tree. One day in winter the woman was standing beneath it, peeling herself 
an 
apple, and while she was thus peeling the apple, she cut her finger, and 
the 
blood fell into the snow. 
 "Oh," said the woman. She sighed heavily, looked at the blood before 
her, 
and was most unhappy. "If only I had a child as red as blood and as white 
as 
snow." And as she said that, she became quite contented, and felt sure 
that it 
was going to happen.  
 Then she went into the house, and a month went by, and the snow was 
gone. 
And two months, and everything was green. And three months, and all the 
flowers 
came out of the earth. And four months, and all the trees in the woods 
grew 
thicker, and the green branches were all entwined in one another, and the 
birds 
sang until the woods resounded and the blossoms fell from the trees. Then 
the 
fifth month passed, and she stood beneath the juniper tree, which smelled 
so 
sweet that her heart jumped for joy, and she fell on her knees and was 
beside 
herself. And when the sixth month was over, the fruit was thick and large, 
and 
then she was quite still. And after the seventh month she picked the 
juniper 
berries and ate them greedily. Then she grew sick and sorrowful. Then the 
eighth month passed, and she called her husband to her, and cried, and 
said, 
"If I die, then bury me beneath the juniper tree." Then she was quite 
comforted 
and happy until the next month was over, and then she had a child as white 
as 
snow and as red as blood, and when she saw it, she was so happy that she 
died. 
 Her husband buried her beneath the juniper tree, and he began to cry 
bitterly. After some time he was more at ease, and although he still 
cried, he 
could bear it. And some time later he took another wife. 
 He had a daughter by the second wife, but the first wife's child was a 
little son, and he was as red as blood and as white as snow. When the 
woman 
looked at her daughter, she loved her very much, but then she looked at 
the 
little boy, and it pierced her heart, for she thought that he would always 
stand in her way, and she was always thinking how she could get the entire 
inheritance for her daughter. And the Evil One filled her mind with this 
until 
she grew very angry with the little boy, and she pushed him from one 
corner to 
the other and slapped him here and cuffed him there, until the poor child 
was 
always afraid, for when he came home from school there was nowhere he 
could 
find any peace. 
 One day the woman had gone upstairs to her room, when her little 
daughter 
came up too, and said, "Mother, give me an apple." 
 "Yes, my child," said the woman, and gave her a beautiful apple out of 
the 
chest. The chest had a large heavy lid with a large sharp iron lock.  
 "Mother," said the little daughter, "is brother not to have one too?" 
 
 This made the woman angry, but she said, "Yes, when he comes home from 
school."  
 When from the window she saw him coming, it was as though the Evil One 
came 
over her, and she grabbed the apple and took it away from her daughter, 
saying, 
"You shall not have one before your brother." 
 She threw the apple into the chest, and shut it. Then the little boy 
came in 
the door, and the Evil One made her say to him kindly, "My son, do you 
want an 
apple?" And she looked at him fiercely.  
 "Mother," said the little boy, "how angry you look. Yes, give me an 
apple." 
 Then it seemed to her as if she had to persuade him. "Come with me," 
she 
said, opening the lid of the chest. "Take out an apple for yourself." And 
while 
the little boy was leaning over, the Evil One prompted her, and crash! she 
slammed down the lid, and his head flew off, falling among the red apples. 
 
 Then fear overcame her, and she thought, "Maybe I can get out of this." 
So 
she went upstairs to her room to her chest of drawers, and took a white 
scarf 
out of the top drawer, and set the head on the neck again, tying the scarf 
around it so that nothing could be seen. Then she set him on a chair in 
front 
of the door and put the apple in his hand. 
 After this Marlene came into the kitchen to her mother, who was 
standing by 
the fire with a pot of hot water before her which she was stirring around 
and 
around.  
 "Mother," said Marlene, "brother is sitting at the door, and he looks 
totally white and has an apple in his hand. I asked him to give me the 
apple, 
but he did not answer me, and I was very frightened."  
 "Go back to him," said her mother, "and if he will not answer you, then 
box 
his ears."  
 So Marlene went to him and said, "Brother, give me the apple." But he 
was 
silent, so she gave him one on the ear, and his head fell off. Marlene was 
terrified, and began crying and screaming, and ran to her mother, and 
said, 
"Oh, mother, I have knocked my brother's head off," and she cried and 
cried and 
could not be comforted.  
 "Marlene," said the mother, "what have you done? Be quiet and don't let 
anyone know about it. It cannot be helped now. We will cook him into 
stew." 
 
 Then the mother took the little boy and chopped him in pieces, put him 
into 
the pot, and cooked him into stew. But Marlene stood by crying and crying, 
and 
all her tears fell into the pot, and they did not need any salt. 
 Then the father came home, and sat down at the table and said, "Where 
is my 
son?" And the mother served up a large, large dish of stew, and Marlene 
cried 
and could not stop.  
 Then the father said again, "Where is my son?"  
 "Oh," said the mother, "he has gone across the country to his mother's 
great 
uncle. He will stay there awhile."  
 "What is he doing there? He did not even say good-bye to me." 
 "Oh, he wanted to go, and asked me if he could stay six weeks. He will 
be 
well taken care of there."  
 "Oh," said the man, "I am unhappy. It isn't right. He should have said 
good-bye to me." With that he began to eat, saying, "Marlene, why are you 
crying? Your brother will certainly come back."  
 Then he said, "Wife, this food is delicious. Give me some more." And 
the 
more he ate the more he wanted, and he said, "Give me some more. You two 
shall 
have none of it. It seems to me as if it were all mine." And he ate and 
ate, 
throwing all the bones under the table, until he had finished it all.  
 Marlene went to her chest of drawers, took her best silk scarf from the 
bottom drawer, and gathered all the bones from beneath the table and tied 
them 
up in her silk scarf, then carried them outside the door, crying tears of 
blood.  
 She laid them down beneath the juniper tree on the green grass, and 
after 
she had put them there, she suddenly felt better and did not cry anymore. 
 
 Then the juniper tree began to move. The branches moved apart, then 
moved 
together again, just as if someone were rejoicing and clapping his hands. 
At 
the same time a mist seemed to rise from the tree, and in the center of 
this 
mist it burned like a fire, and a beautiful bird flew out of the fire 
singing 
magnificently, and it flew high into the air, and when it was gone, the 
juniper 
tree was just as it had been before, and the cloth with the bones was no 
longer 
there. Marlene, however, was as happy and contented as if her brother were 
still alive. And she went merrily into the house, sat down at the table, 
and 
ate. 
 Then the bird flew away and lit on a goldsmith's house, and began to 
sing: 
 My mother, she killed me, 
My father, he ate me, 
My sister Marlene, 
Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf, 
Laid them beneath the juniper tree, 
Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. 
 The goldsmith was sitting in his workshop making a golden chain, 
when 
he heard the bird sitting on his roof and singing. The song seemed very 
beautiful to him. He stood up, but as he crossed the threshold he lost one 
of 
his slippers. However, he went right up the middle of the street with only 
one 
slipper and one sock on. He had his leather apron on, and in one hand he 
had a 
golden chain and in the other his tongs. The sun was shining brightly on 
the 
street.  
 He walked onward, then stood still and said to the bird, "Bird," he 
said, 
"how beautifully you can sing. Sing that piece again for me."  
 "No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me the 
golden 
chain, and then I will sing it again for you."  
 The goldsmith said, "Here is the golden chain for you. Now sing that 
song 
again for me." Then the bird came and took the golden chain in his right 
claw, 
and went and sat in front of the goldsmith, and sang: 
 My mother, she killed me, 
My father, he ate me, 
My sister Marlene, 
Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf, 
Laid them beneath the juniper tree, 
Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. 
 Then the bird flew away to a shoemaker, and lit on his roof and 
sang: 
 My mother, she killed me, 
My father, he ate me, 
My sister Marlene, 
Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf, 
Laid them beneath the juniper tree, 
Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. 
 Hearing this, the shoemaker ran out of doors in his 
shirtsleeves, and 
looked up at his roof, and had to hold his hand in front of his eyes to 
keep 
the sun from blinding him. "Bird," said he, "how beautifully you can 
sing." 
 
 Then he called in at his door, "Wife, come outside. There is a bird 
here. 
Look at this bird. He certainly can sing." Then he called his daughter and 
her 
children, and the journeyman, and the apprentice, and the maid, and they 
all 
came out into the street and looked at the bird and saw how beautiful he 
was, 
and what fine red and green feathers he had, and how his neck was like 
pure 
gold, and how his eyes shone like stars in his head.  
 "Bird," said the shoemaker, "now sing that song again for me."  
 "No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. You must give me 
something."  
 "Wife," said the man, "go into the shop. There is a pair of red shoes 
on the 
top shelf. Bring them down." Then the wife went and brought the shoes. 
 
 "There, bird," said the man, "now sing that piece again for me." Then 
the 
bird came and took the shoes in his left claw, and flew back to the roof, 
and 
sang: 
 My mother, she killed me, 
My father, he ate me, 
My sister Marlene, 
Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf, 
Laid them beneath the juniper tree, 
Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. 
 When he had finished his song he flew away. In his right claw he 
had 
the chain and in his left one the shoes. He flew far away to a mill, and 
the 
mill went clickety-clack, clickety-clack, clickety-clack. In the mill sat 
twenty miller's apprentices cutting a stone, and chiseling chip-chop, 
chip-chop, chip-chop. And the mill went clickety-clack, clickety-clack, 
clickety-clack.  
 Then the bird went and sat on a linden tree which stood in front of the 
mill, and sang: 
 My mother, she killed me, 
 Then one of them stopped working. 
 My father, he ate me, 
 Then two more stopped working and listened, 
 My sister Marlene, 
 Then four more stopped, 
 Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf, 
 Now only eight only were chiseling, 
 Laid them beneath 
 Now only five, 
 the juniper tree, 
 Now only one, 
 Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am 
I. 
 Then the last one stopped also, and heard the last words. 
"Bird," 
said he, "how beautifully you sing. Let me hear that too. Sing it once 
more for 
me." 
 "No," said the bird, "I do not sing twice for nothing. Give me the 
millstone, and then I will sing it again." 
 "Yes," he said, "if it belonged only to me, you should have it."  
 "Yes," said the others, "if he sings again he can have it."  
 Then the bird came down, and the twenty millers took a beam and lifted 
the 
stone up. Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho! Yo-heave-ho!  
 The bird stuck his neck through the hole and put the stone on as if it 
were 
a collar, then flew to the tree again, and sang: 
 My mother, she killed me, 
My father, he ate me, 
My sister Marlene, 
Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf, 
Laid them beneath the juniper tree, 
Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. 
 When he was finished singing, he spread his wings, and in his 
right 
claw he had the chain, and in his left one the shoes, and around his neck 
the 
millstone. He flew far away to his father's house. 
 In the room the father, the mother, and Marlene were sitting at the 
table. 
 
 The father said, "I feel so contented. I am so happy."  
 "Not I," said the mother, "I feel uneasy, just as if a bad storm were 
coming."  
 But Marlene just sat and cried and cried. 
 Then the bird flew up, and as it seated itself on the roof, the father 
said, 
"Oh, I feel so truly happy, and the sun is shining so beautifully outside. 
I 
feel as if I were about to see some old acquaintance again."  
 "Not I," said the woman, "I am so afraid that my teeth are chattering, 
and I 
feel like I have fire in my veins." And she tore open her bodice even 
more. 
Marlene sat in a corner crying. She held a handkerchief before her eyes 
and 
cried until it was wet clear through.  
 Then the bird seated itself on the juniper tree, and sang: 
 My mother, she killed me, 
 The mother stopped her ears and shut her eyes, not wanting to 
see or 
hear, but there was a roaring in her ears like the fiercest storm, and her 
eyes 
burned and flashed like lightning. 
 My father, he ate me,  
 "Oh, mother," said the man, "that is a beautiful bird. He is 
singing 
so splendidly, and the sun is shining so warmly, and it smells like pure 
cinnamon." 
 My sister Marlene, 
 Then Marlene laid her head on her knees and cried and cried, but 
the 
man said, "I am going out. I must see the bird up close."  
 "Oh, don't go," said the woman, "I feel as if the whole house were 
shaking 
and on fire."  
 But the man went out and looked at the bird. 
 Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf, 
Laid them beneath the juniper tree, 
Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. 
 With this the bird dropped the golden chain, and it fell right 
around 
the man's neck, so exactly around it that it fit beautifully. Then the man 
went 
in and said, "Just look what a beautiful bird that is, and what a 
beautiful 
golden chain he has given me, and how nice it looks."  
 But the woman was terrified. She fell down on the floor in the room, 
and her 
cap fell off her head. Then the bird sang once more: 
 My mother killed me.  
 "I wish I were a thousand fathoms beneath the earth, so I would 
not 
have to hear that!" 
 My father, he ate me,  
 Then the woman fell down as if she were dead. 
 My sister Marlene,  
 "Oh," said Marlene, "I too will go out and see if the bird will 
give 
me something." Then she went out. 
 Gathered all my bones, 
Tied them in a silken scarf,  
 He threw the shoes down to her. 
 Laid them beneath the juniper tree, 
Tweet, tweet, what a beautiful bird am I. 
 Then she was contented and happy. She put on the new red shoes 
and 
danced and leaped into the house. "Oh," she said, "I was so sad when I 
went out 
and now I am so contented. That is a splendid bird, he has given me a pair 
of 
red shoes."  
 "No," said the woman, jumping to her feet and with her hair standing up 
like 
flames of fire, "I feel as if the world were coming to an end. I too, will 
go 
out and see if it makes me feel better."  
 And as she went out the door, crash! the bird threw the millstone on 
her 
head, and it crushed her to death. 
 The father and Marlene heard it and went out. Smoke, flames, and fire 
were 
rising from the place, and when that was over, the little brother was 
standing 
there, and he took his father and Marlene by the hand, and all three were 
very 
happy, and they went into the house, sat down at the table, and ate.