There were once three brothers who wished to marry. They said, "Let us
each shoot an arrow, and each shall take his wife from the place where the
arrow falls." They shot their arrows; those of the two elder brothers fell
on noblemen's houses, while the youngest brother's arrow fell in a lake.
The two elder brothers led home their noble wives, and the youngest went
to the shore of the lake. He saw a frog creep out of the lake and sit down
upon a stone. He took it up and carried it back to the house. All the
brothers came home with what fate had given them; the elder brothers with
the noble maidens, and the youngest with a frog.
 The brothers went out to work. The wives prepared the dinner and
attended to all their household duties. The frog sat by the fire croaking,
and its eyes glittered. Thus they lived together a long time in love and
harmony.
 At last the sisters-in-law wearied of the sight of the frog. When they
swept the house, they threw out the frog with the dust. If the youngest
brother found it, he took it up in his hand; if not, the frog would leap
back to its place by the fire and begin to croak. The noble sisters did
not like this, and said to their husbands, "Drive this frog out, and get a
real wife for your brother." Every day the brothers bothered the youngest.
 He replied, saying, "This frog is certainly my fate. I am worthy of no
better. I must be faithful to it." His sisters-in-law persisted in telling
their husbands that the brother and his frog must be sent away, and at
last they agreed.
 The young brother was now left quite desolate. There was no one to make
his food, no one to stand watching at the door. For a short time a
neighboring woman came to wait upon him, but she had not time, so he was
left alone. The man became very melancholy.
 Once when he was thinking sadly of his loneliness, he went to work.
When he had finished his day's labor, he went home. He looked into his
house and was struck with amazement. The sideboard was well replenished;
in one place was spread a cloth, and on the cloth were many different
kinds of tempting dishes. He looked and saw the frog in its place
croaking. He said to himself that his sisters-in-law must have done this
for him, and went to his work again. He was out all day working, and when
he came home he always found everything prepared for him.
 Once he said to himself, "I will see for once who is this unseen
benefactor, who comes to do good to me and look after me." That day he
stayed at home; he seated himself on the roof of the house and watched. In
a short time the frog leaped out of the fireplace, jumped over to the
doors, and all around the room. Seeing no one there, it went back and took
off the frog's skin, put it near the fire, and came forth a beautiful
maiden, fair as the sun; so lovely was she that the man could not imagine
anything prettier. In the twinkling of an eye she had tidied everything,
prepared the food, and cooked it. When everything was ready, she went to
the fire, put on the skin again, and began to croak. When the man saw this
he was very much astonished; he rejoiced exceedingly that God had granted
him such happiness. He descended from the roof, went in, caressed his frog
tenderly, and then sat down to his tasty supper.
 The next day the man hid himself in the place where he had been the day
before. The frog, having satisfied itself that nobody was there, stripped
off its skin and began its good work. This time the man stole silently
into the house, seized the frog's skin in his hand and threw it into the
fire. When the maiden saw this she entreated him, she wept, and she said,
"Do not burn it, or you shall surely be destroyed," but the man had burned
it in a moment. "Now, if your happiness be turned to misery, it is not my
fault," said the sorrow-stricken woman.
 In a very short time the whole countryside knew that the man who had a
frog now possessed in its place a lovely woman, who had come to him from
heaven.
 The lord of the country heard of this, and wished to take her from him.
He called the beautiful woman's husband to him and said, "Sow a barnful of
wheat in a day, or give me your wife." When he had spoken thus, the man
was obliged to consent, and he went home melancholy.
 When he went in he told his wife what had taken place. She reproached
him, saying, "I told you what would happen if you did burn the skin, and
you did not heed me; but I will not blame you. Be not sad; go in the
morning to the edge of the lake from which I came, and call out, 'Mother
and Father! I pray you, lend me your swift bullocks.' Lead them away with
you, and the bullocks will in one day plow the fields and sow the grain."
The husband did this.
 He went to the edge of the lake and called out, "Mother and Father! I
entreat you, lend me your swift bullocks today." There came forth from the
lake such a team of oxen as was never seen on sea or land.
 The youth drove the bullocks away, came to his lord's field, and plowed
and sowed them in one day.
 His lord was very much surprised. He did not know if there was anything
impossible to this man, whose wife he wanted. He called him a second time,
and said, "Go and gather up the wheat you have sown, that not a grain may
be wanting, and that the barn may be full. If you do not do this, your
wife is mine."
 "This is impossible," said the man to himself. He went home to his
wife, who again reproached him, and then said, "Go to the lake's edge and
ask for the jackdaws."
 The husband went to the edge of the lake and called out, "Mother and
Father! I beg you to lend me your jackdaws today." From the lake came
forth flocks of jackdaws; they flew to the plowed ground, each gathered up
a seed and put it into the barn.
 The lord came and cried out, "There is one seed short; I know each one,
and one is missing." At that moment a jackdaw's caw was heard; it came
with the missing seed, but owing to a lame foot it was a little late.
 The lord was very angry that even the impossible was possible to this
man, and could not think what to give him to do.
 He puzzled his brain until he thought of the following plan. He called
the man and said to him, "My mother, who died in this village, took with
her a ring. If you go to the other world and bring that ring back to me,
it is well; if not, I shall take away your wife."
 The man said to himself, "This is quite impossible." He went home and
complained to his wife. She reproached him, and then said, "Go to the lake
and ask for the ram."
 The husband went to the lake and called out, "Mother and Father! Give
me your ram today, I pray you." From the lake there came forth a ram with
twisted horns; from its mouth issued a flame of fire. It said to the man,
"Mount on my back!"
 The man sat down, and, quick as lightning, the ram descended towards
the lower regions. It went on and shot like an arrow through the earth.
 They traveled on, and saw in one place a man and woman sitting on a
bullock's skin, which was not big enough for them, and they were like to
fall off. The man called out to them, "What can be the meaning of this,
that this bullock skin is not big enough for two people?"
 They said, "We have seen many pass by like you, but none has returned.
When you come back we shall answer your question."
 They went on their way and saw a man and woman sitting on an ax handle,
and they were not afraid of falling. The man called out to them, "Are you
not afraid of falling from the handle of an ax?"
 They said to him, "We have seen many pass by like you, but none has
returned. When you come back we shall answer your question."
 They went on their way again, until they came to a place where they saw
a priest feeding cattle. This priest had such a long beard that it spread
over the ground, and the cattle, instead of eating grass, fed on the
priest's beard, and he could not prevent it. The man called out, "Priest,
what is the meaning of this? Why is your beard pasture for these cattle?"
 The priest replied, "I have seen many pass by like you, but none has
returned. When you come back I shall answer your question."
 They journeyed on again until they came to a place where they saw
nothing but boiling pitch, and a flame came forth from it -- and this was
hell. The ram said, "Sit firmly on my back, for we must pass through this
fire." The man held fast. The ram gave a leap, and they escaped through
the fire unhurt.
 There they saw a melancholy woman seated on a golden throne. She said;
"What is it, my child? What troubles you? What has brought you here?" He
told her everything that had happened to him. She said, "I must punish
this very wicked child of mine, and you must take him a casket from me."
She gave him a casket, and said, "Whatever you do, do not open this casket
yourself. Take it with you, give it to your lord, and run quickly away
from him."
 The man took the casket and went away. He came to the place where the
priest was feeding the cattle. The priest said, "I promised you an answer.
Hearken unto my words: In life I loved nothing but myself; I cared for
nothing else. My flocks I fed on other pastures than my own, and the
neighboring cattle died of starvation. Now I am paying the penalty."
 Then he went on to the place where the man and woman were sitting on
the handle of the ax. They said, "We promised you an answer. Hearken unto
our words: We loved each other too well on earth, and it is the same with
us here."
 Then he came to the two seated on the bullock skin, which was not big
enough for them. They said, "We promised you an answer. Hearken unto our
words: We despised each other in life, and we equally despise each other
here."
 At last the man came up on earth, descended from the ram, and went to
his lord. He gave him the casket and quickly ran away. The lord opened the
casket, and there came forth fire, which swallowed him up. Our brother was
thus victorious over his enemy, and no one took his wife from him. They
lived lovingly together, and blessed God as their deliverer.