Once upon a time there lived a shepherd who served his master
faithfully and honestly. One day whilst keeping the sheep in the forest,
he heard a hissing, and wondered what the noise could be. So he went
farther into the wood to try and find out. There he saw that the forest
was on fire, and a snake was hissing in the midst of the flames. The
shepherd watched to see what the snake would do, for it was quite
surrounded by the fire, which approached it nearer and nearer. 
 Then the snake cried out, "For God's sake, good shepherd, save me from
the fire!" 
 So the shepherd stretched his crook across the flames and the snake
glided rapidly over the staff and up his arm onto his shoulder, till at
last it wound itself round his neck. Then the shepherd was terrified and
exclaimed, "What shall I do? What an unlucky wretch I am! I saved you, and
now your are about to kill me!" 
 The snake answered, "Do not be afraid. Only take me to the house of my
father. My father is the king of snakes." 
 But the shepherd, being already in great fear, began to excuse himself,
saying he must not leave his sheep. Then the snake said, "Nothing will
happen to your sheep. Do not be anxious about them. But let us hurry
home." 
 So the shepherd went on with the snake through the forest, until they
came to a gate made entirely of snakes. Then the snake on the neck of the
shepherd hissed, and instantly the snakes untwined themselves, so that the
man could pass through. As soon as they had gone through, the snake said
to him, "When you reach my father's house he will offer to give you
whatever you like -- gold, silver, or precious stones. Do not, however,
take any of these things. Choose, instead, the language of animals. He
will hesitate at first, but at last he will give it you." 
 Meanwhile they arrived at the palace, and the king of snakes said,
weeping, "For God's sake, my child, where were you?" Thereupon the snake
told him all that had happened, how he had been surrounded by fire, and
the shepherd had saved him. Then the snake king said to the shepherd,
"What do you wish that I should give you for saving my son?" 
 The shepherd answered, "I desire nothing but the language of
animals." 
 The snake king, however, said, "That is not good for you, for if I give
it you, and you tell anyone about it, you will instantly die. Therefore it
is better that you ask me for something else." 
 "If you wish to give me anything," replied the shepherd, "give me the
language of animals. If you will not give me that, I want nothing -- so
good-bye," and he turned to go away. 
 Then the snake king called him back, saying, "If you indeed wish it so
much, take it. Open your mouth." The shepherd did so, and the snake king
blew into his mouth, and said, "Now blow once yourself in my mouth." The
Shepherd did so, and then the snake king blew again into his mouth, and
this they did three times. After that the snake said, "Now you possess the
language of animals. Go, in God's name, but do not for the world tell
anyone about it. If you tell anyone you will instantly die." 
 The shepherd returned across the forest, and, passing through it, he
understood everything the birds and animals, and even the plants were
saying to each other. When he came to his sheep he found them all there,
safe and sound, so he laid himself down to rest a little. 
 Hardly had he done so before two or three ravens settled on a tree near
him, and began to converse together, saying, "If that shepherd only knew
that just on the spot where the black sheep is lying there is, deep in the
earth, a cave full of gold and silver!" 
 When the shepherd heard that he went off to his master and told him.
The master brought a cart, and dug down to the cave, and carried the
treasure away home. But the master was honest, so he gave up the whole of
the treasure to the shepherd, saying, "Here my son, all this wealth
belongs to you. For to you God gave it. Build a house, marry, and live
upon the treasure." 
 So the shepherd took the money, built a house, and married, and by and
by he became the richest man in the whole neighborhood. He kept his own
shepherd, and cattle driver, and swineherd. In short, he had great
property and made much money. 
 Once, just at Christmas, he said to his wife, "Get ready some wine and
other food, and tomorrow we will feast the shepherds." 
 The wife did so, and in the morning they went to their farm. Towards
evening the master said to the shepherds, "Come here, all of you. You
shall eat, drink, and make merry together, and I will go myself this night
to watch the sheep." 
 So the master went to watch his sheep, and, about midnight, the wolves
began to howl and the dogs to bark. The wolves spoke, in wolf language,
"May we come and take something? You also, shall get a part of the
prey." 
 And the dogs answered, in dog language, "Come! We also are ready to eat
something." 
 But there was one old dog there who had only two teeth left. This old
dog shouted furiously, "Come on, you miserable wretches, if you dare. So
long as I have these two teeth left you shall not do any damage to my
master's property." 
 All this the master heard and understood. Next day he ordered all the
dogs to be killed except that old one. The servants began to remonstrate,
saying, "For God's sake, master, it is a pity to do this." 
 But the master answered, "Do as I have ordered you," and started with
his wife to go home. They rode on horseback, he on a fine horse and his
wife on a handsome mare. But the master's horse went so fast that the wife
remained a little behind. 
 Then the master's horse neighed, and said to the mare, "Come on, why do
you stay behind?" 
 And the mare answered, "Ah, to you it is easy -- you are carrying only
one weight, and I am carrying three." 
 Thereupon the man turned his head and laughed. The wife saw him
laughing, and urged the mare on quicker till she came up to her husband,
and asked him, "Why were you laughing?" 
 He said merely, "I had good reason to laugh!" 
 But the wife was not satisfied, and again begged he would tell her why
he laughed. He excused himself, exclaiming, "Give up questioning me. What
has come to you, my wife? I forget now why it was I laughed." 
 But the more he refused to tell her, the more she wished to know. At
last the man said, "If I tell you I shall die immediately!" 
 That, however, did not quiet her, and she kept on asking, saying to
him, "You must tell me." 
 In the meantime they reached their house. When they had done so the man
ordered a coffin to be made, and, when it was ready, had it placed in
front of the house, and laid himself down in it. Then he said to his wife,
"Now I will tell you why I laughed, but the moment I tell you I shall
die." 
 So he looked around once more, and saw that the old dog had come from
the field, and had taken his stand over his head, and was howling. When
the man noticed this he said to his wife, "Bring a piece of bread for this
poor dog." 
 The wife brought a piece and threw it to the dog, but the dog did not
even look at it, and a cock came near and began to peck at it. 
 Then the dog said to the cock, "You think only about eating. Do you
know that our master is going to die?" 
 And the cock answered, "Well, let him die, since he is so stupid. I
have a hundred wives, and often at nights I gather them all round a grain
of corn, and, when they are all there, I pick it up myself. If any of them
are angry, I peck them. That is my way of keeping them quiet. Only look at
the master, however. He is not able to rule one single wife!" 
 The man, hearing that, got out of the coffin, took a stick, and called
his wife to him, saying, "Come now, and I will tell you what you want to
know." 
 The wife, seeing she was in danger of getting a beating, left him in
peace, and never asked him again why it was he laughed.