Once near a lonely farmhouse surrounded by rice fields there lived a 
rat couple. They were highly regarded by their own 

kind and very prosperous. One day, in addition to their many other 
children, a little daughter was born to them. She was so 

dainty with her shiny gray fur, her broad little upright ears, and her 
glistening eyes, that her parents became quite proud of their 

little daughter. Day in and day out their only thoughts were how they 
might prepare a magnificent future for her.   
 When the little rat came of age, both parents came to the conclusion 
that only the most powerful being in the entire world 

should be her husband.   
 Once they were discussing this matter with a neighbor, and he said, "If 
you want to give your daughter in marriage to the 

most powerful being, you must choose the sun as your son-in-law, for 
without question, no one equals the sun in power.   
 The rat couple saw that this was true, and without hesitation they made 
their way to the sun and presented to him their 

proposal that he should marry their daughter.   
 The sun replied, "I am much indebted to you that you have come so far, 
and that you have the kind intention to give me your 

daughter in marriage, but please tell me just why you have chosen me to be 
your son-in-law."   
 The rats said, "We would like to give our daughter in marriage to the 
most powerful being in the world, and without dispute 

you are that one. Therefore we have chosen you to be our son-in-law."  
 
 Then the sun said, "What you say is not without foundation, but there 
is a being more powerful than I, and it is he to whom 

you must give your daughter."   
 The rats replied, "Can there in truth be someone more powerful than 
you?"   
 The sun said, "When I want to shine on the earth, a cloud often comes 
by and covers me up, and my rays are unable either 

to penetrate it or to frighten it away. I am powerless against the cloud. 
Thus you must go to the cloud and make him your 

son-in-law."   
 The rats saw that it was so, and they went to the cloud.   
 After they had presented their proposal to him, the cloud said, "You 
are in error if you think that I am the most powerful 

being. I do indeed have the power to cover the sun, but I am powerless 
against the wind. When he begins to blow, he drives me 

away and tears me to pieces. There is nothing I can do against him."   
 So the rats went to the wind and made the proposal to him that he 
should marry their daughter, whom they wanted to give in 

marriage to the most powerful being.   
 But the wind said, "You are in error. I do indeed have the power to 
drive away the cloud, but I am powerless against the 

wall that people build to hold me back. I can neither blow through it nor 
do anything to it. The wall is much more powerful than 

I."   
 So the rats again set forth and came to the wall, to whom, in a similar 
manner, they made their request.  
 The wall replied, "It is indeed true that I have the power to resist 
the wind, but there is a rat that is undermining me, boring 

into me and making holes throughout me, and there is nothing I can do to 
stop him. I am powerless against the rat. It would be 

better for you to take the rat for your son-in-law than to choose me!"  
 
 This pleased the rats, for they saw that the wall was right. They 
returned home and married their dear daughter to a 

handsome young rat.   
 They never regretted this, for their daughter lived happily and 
contentedly with a man of her own kind. And the parents, who 

once had wanted to elevate her so high, shared in her happiness and 
satisfaction.