Once upon a time there was a youth who used to herd buffaloes; and as
he watched his animals graze he noticed that exactly at noon every day a
she-dog used to make its way to a ravine, in which there were some pools
of water. This made him curious and he wondered to whom it belonged and
what it did in the ravine. So he decided to watch, and one day when the
dog came he hid himself and saw that when it got to the water, it shed its
dog skin, and out stepped a beautiful maiden and began to bathe. And when
she had finished bathing she put on the skin and became a dog again, and
went off to the village. The herdboy followed her and watched into what
house she entered, and he inquired to whom the house belonged. Having
found out all about it, he went back to his work.
 That year the herdboy's father and mother decided that it was time for
him to marry and began to look about for a wife for him. But he announced
that he had made up his mind to have a dog for his wife, and he would
never marry a human girl.
 Everyone laughed at him for such an extraordinary idea, but he could
not be moved. So at last they concluded that he must really have the soul
of a dog in him, and that it was best to let him have his own way. So his
father and mother asked him whether there was any particular dog he would
like to have for his bride, and then he gave the name of the man into
whose house he had tracked the dog that he had seen going to the ravine.
The master of the dog laughed at the idea that anyone should wish to marry
her, and gladly accepted a bride's price for her. So a day was fixed for
the wedding and the booth built for the ceremony, and the bridegroom's
party went to the bride's house, and the marriage took place in due form,
and the bride was escorted to her husband's house.
 Every night when her husband was asleep, the bride used to come out of
the dog's skin and go out of the house. And when her husband found out
this, he one night only pretended to go to sleep and lay watching her. And
when she was about to leave the room he jumped up and caught hold of her
and seizing the dog skin, threw it into the fire, where it was burnt to
ashes. So his bride remained a woman, but she was of more than human
beauty. This soon became known in the village, and everyone congratulated
the herdboy on his wisdom in marrying a dog.
 Now the herdboy had a friend named Jitu, and when Jitu saw what a prize
his friend had got, he thought that he could not do better than marry a
dog himself. His relations made no objection, and a bride was selected,
and the marriage took place, but when they were putting vermilion on the
bride's forehead she began to growl; but in spite of her growling they
dragged her to the bridegroom's house, and forcibly anointed her with oil
and turmeric. But when the bride's party set off home, the dog broke loose
and ran after them. Then everyone shouted to Jitu to run after his bride
and bring her back, but she only growled and bit at him, so that he had at
last to give it up.
 Then everyone laughed at him so much that he was too ashamed to speak,
and two or three days later he hanged himself.