Another singular story is told on Dartmoor:   
There was once a fox, who, prowling by night in search of prey, came 
unexpectedly on a colony of pixies. Each pixy had a separate house. The 
first he came to was a wooden house.   
"Let me in, let me in," said the fox.   
"I won't," was the pixy's answer; "and the door is fastened."   
Upon this the fox climbed to the top of the house; and having pawed it 
down, made a meal of the unfortunate pixy.   
The next was a "stonen" house.   
"Let me in," said the fox.   
"The door is fastened," answered the pixy.   
Again was the house pulled down, and its inmate eaten.   
The third was an iron house. The fox again craved admittance, and was 
again refused.   
"But I bring you good news," said the fox.   
"No, no," replied the pixy; "I know what you want; you shall not come in 
here tonight."   
That house the fox in vain attempted to destroy. It was too strong for 
him, and he went away in despair. But he returned the next night, and 
exerted all his fox-like qualities in the hope of deceiving the pixy. For 
some time he tried in vain ; until at last he mentioned a tempting field 
of turnips in the neighborhood, to which he offered to conduct his 
intended victim. They agreed to meet the next morning at four o'clock.   
But the pixy outwitted the fox; for he found his way to the field, and 
returned laden with his turnips long before the fox was astir. The fox was 
greatly vexed, and was long unable to devise another scheme, until he 
bethought himself of a great fair about to be held a short way off, and 
proposed to the pixy that they should set off for it at three in the 
morning.   
The pixy agreed. But the fox was again outwitted; for he was only up in 
time to meet the pixy returning home with his fairings: a clock, a crock, 
and a frying pan. The pixy, who saw the fox coming, got into the crock and 
rolled himself down the hill ; and the fox, unable to find him, abandoned 
the scent and went his way. The fox returned the next morning; and finding 
the door open went in, when he caught the pixy in bed, put him into a box, 
and locked him in.   
"Let me out," said the pixy, " and I will tell you a wonderful secret." 
  
The fox was after a time persuaded to lift the cover; and the pixy, coming 
out, threw such a charm upon him that he was compelled to enter the box in 
his turn; and there at last he died.