1001 Nights    
They recount that in the city of Kaukaban in Yemen there was a man named
Abu
Hasan of the Fadhli tribe who left the Bedouin life and became a townsman
and
the wealthiest of merchants.  His wife died while both were young, and his
friends pressed him to marry again.  
Weary of their pressure, Abu Hasan entered into negotiations with the old
women
who procure matches, and married a woman as beautiful as the moon shining
over
the sea.  To the wedding banquet he invited kith and kin, ulema and
fakirs,
friends and foes, and all of his acquaintances.    
The whole house was thrown open to feasting:  There were five different
colors
of rice, and sherbets of as many more; kid goats stuffed with walnuts,
almonds,
and pistachios; and a young camel roasted whole.  So they ate and drank
and made
merry.  
The bride was displayed in her seven dresses -- and one more -- to the
women,
who could not take their eyes off her.  At last the bridegroom was
summoned to
the chamber where she sat enthroned.  He rose slowly and with dignity from
his
divan; but in do doing, for he was over full of meat and drink, he let fly
a
great and terrible fart.  
In fear for their lives, all the guests immediately turned to their
neighbors
and talked aloud, pretending to have heard nothing.  
Mortified, Abu Hasan turned away from the bridal chamber and as if to
answer a
call of nature.  He went down to the courtyard, saddled his mare, and rode
off,
weeping bitterly through the night.  
In time he reached Lahej where he found a ship ready to sail for India; so
he
boarded, arriving ultimately at Calicut on the Malabar coast.  Here he met
with
many Arabs, especially from Hadramaut, who recommended him to the King.
This
King (who was a Kafir) trusted him and advanced him to the captaincy of
his
bodyguard.  He remained there ten years, in peace and happiness, but
finally was
overcome with homesickness.  His longing to behold his native land was
like that
of a lover pining for his beloved; and it nearly cost him his life.  
Finally he sneaked away without taking leave and made his way to Makalla
in
Hadramaut.  Here he donned the rags of a dervish.  Keeping his name and
circumstances a secret, he set forth on foot for Kaukaban.  He endured a
thousand hardships of hunger, thirst, and fatigue; and braved a thousand
dangers
from lions, snakes, and ghouls.  
Drawing near to his old home, he looked down upon it from the hills with
brimming eyes, and said to himself, "They might recognize me, so I will
wander
about the outskirts and listen to what people are saying.  May Allah grant
that
they do not remember what happened."  
He listened carefully for seven nights and seven days, until it happened
that,
as he was sitting at the door of a hut, he heard the voice of a young girl
saying, "Mother, tell me what day was I born on, for one of my companions
wants
to tell my fortune."  
The mother answered, "My daughter, you were born on the very night when
Abu
Hasan farted."  
No sooner had the listener heard these words than he rose up from the
bench and
fled, saying to himself, "Verily my fart has become a date!  It will be
remembered for ever and ever.  
He continued on his way, returning finally to India, where he remained in
self
exile until he died.  May the mercy of Allah be upon him!