A young peasant in the parish of Mellby [in Blekinge], who often amused
himself with hunting, saw one day three swans flying toward him, which
settled down upon the strand of a sound nearby. Approaching the place, he
was astonished at seeing the three swans divest themselves of their
feathery attire, which they threw into the grass, and three maidens of
dazzling beauty step forth and spring into the water. After sporting in
the waves awhile they returned to the land, where they resumed their
former garb and shape and flew away in the same direction from which they
came.
 One of them, the youngest and fairest, had, in the meantime, so smitten
the young hunter that neither night nor day could he tear his thoughts
from the bright image. His mother, noticing that something was wrong with
her son, and that the chase, which had formerly been his favorite
pleasure, had lost its attractions, asked him finally the cause of his
melancholy, whereupon he related to her what he had seen, and declared
that there was no longer any happiness in this life for him if he could
not possess the fair swan maiden.
 "Nothing is easier," said the mother. "Go at sunset next Thursday
evening to the place where you last saw her. When the three swans come,
give attention to where your chosen one lays her feathery garb, take it,
and hasten away."
 The young man listened to his mother's instructions, and, betaking
himself, the following Thursday evening, to a convenient hiding place near
the sound, he waited, with impatience, the coming of the swans. The sun
was just sinking behind the trees when the young man's ears were greeted
by a whizzing in the air, and the three swans settled down upon the beach,
as on their former visit.
 As soon as they had laid off their swan attire they were again
transformed into the most beautiful maidens, and, springing out upon the
white sand, they were soon enjoying themselves in the water. From his
hiding place the young hunter had taken careful note of where his
enchantress had laid her swan feathers. Stealing softly forth, he took
them and returned to his place of concealment in the surrounding foliage.
 Soon thereafter two of the swans were heard to fly away, but the third,
in search of her clothes, discovered the young man, before whom, believing
him responsible for their disappearance, she fell upon her knees and
prayed that her swan attire might be returned to her. The hunter was,
however, unwilling to yield the beautiful prize, and, casting a cloak
around her shoulders, carried her home.
 Preparations were soon made for a magnificent wedding, which took place
in due form, and the young couple dwelt lovingly and contentedly together.
 One Thursday evening, seven years later, the hunter related to her how
he had sought and won his wife. He brought forth and showed her, also, the
white swan feathers of her former days. No sooner were they placed in her
hands than she was transformed once more into a swan, and instantly took
flight through the open window. In breathless astonishment, the man stared
wildly after his rapidly vanishing wife, and before a year and a day had
passed, he was laid, with his longings and sorrows, in his allotted place
in the village churchyard.