One day a woman went to cut thatching grass and 
she cut such a quantity that when she tied it up, the 
bundle was too big for her to lift on to her head; so 
she stood and called for some one to help her, but no 
one was within hearing and no one came. She called 
and called and at last began to promise that she would 
give her daughter in marriage to any one who would 
help her. 
 
After she had called out this a few times, a tiger 
suddenly appeared and asked what she wanted; she 
explained her difficulty and the tiger undertook to lift 
the load on to her head, if she would really give him 
her daughter in marriage. She promised and with 
the help of the tiger took up the bundle and went 
home. 
 
Two or three days after, the tiger presented himself at 
her house and was duly married to the daughter. After 
the wedding the couple started for the tiger's home; 
all the way the unhappy bride wept und sang:
"How far off is our home, big head?" 
 
"You can just see the mouth of the cave," answered the 
tiger and in a short time they came to a large cave. 
 
Then the tiger told her to set to work and cook a feast while 
he went off and invited his friends to come and share it. 
But the bride when left alone caught a cat and killed 
it and hung it over the fire, so that its blood dropped 
slowly into the pan and made a fizzling noise, as if 
cooking were going on; and then she ran off to her 
mother's house and climbed a tree which grew near it 
and began to sing: 
 
You married me to a ti-ti-tiger:   
You threw me to a bear:  
Take back the necklace you gave me  
Take back the bracelet and the diamonds and the coral. 
  
Meanwhile the tiger returned with his friends and sat 
down outside the cave and told his wife to be quick 
with the cooking of the cakes for he heard the hissing 
over the fire and thought that she was cooking. At 
last as she did not come out, he got tired of waiting 
and went in to fetch her. Then he saw that she had 
disappeared and had to go and tell his friends. They 
were very angry at being cheated out of a feast, and 
fell upon the tiger and beat him, till he ran away and 
was seen no more; but his bride was left to flit from 
tree to tree singing:  
 
You married me to a ti-ti-tiger:   
You threw me to a bear:  
Take back the necklace you gave me  
Take back the bracelet and the diamonds and the coral.