In the vicinity of Klein-Krams near Ludwigslust in former times there were
extensive forests that were so rich with game that the dukes often came to
this region to hold their great hunts.  During these hunts they almost
always saw a wolf who -- even though he came within shooting distance --
could never be killed by a huntsman.  Indeed, they even had to watch as he
took a piece of game before their very eyes and -- something that was most
remarkable to them -- ran with it into the village. 
Now once it happened that a hussar from Ludwigslust was traveling through
the village and just happened to enter the house of a man named Feeg.
When he entered the house a flock of children stormed out of the house
with a loud cry and hurried out into the yard.  When he asked them about
their wild behavior, they told him that except for a small boy, no one
from the Feeg family was at home, and that he -- as was his custom when no
one was at home -- had transformed himself into a werewolf, and that they
were running away from him, because otherwise he would bite them. 
Soon afterward the feared wolf appeared, but by now he had laid aside his
wolf form.  The hussar turned to the Feeg child and tried to learn more
about the wolf game, but the child would say nothing.  However, the
stranger would not give up, and he finally succeeded in making the child
talk. 
The child told him that his grandmother had a strap, and that if he put it
on he would instantly become a wolf.  The hussar kindly asked the boy to
make an appearance as a werewolf.  At first the boy refused, but finally
he agreed to do it, if the strange man would first climb into the loft, so
that he would be safe from him.  The hussar agreed to this, and to be sure
pulled up the ladder with which he had climbed into the loft. 
As soon as this had happened the boy ran into the main room, and soon came
out again as a young wolf and chased away all those who standing in the
entryway.  After the wolf had run back into the main room and come back
out as a boy, the hussar climbed down and had the Feeg child show him the
magic belt, but he could not discover anything unusual about it. 
Afterward the hussar went to a forester in the vicinity of Klein-Krams and
told him what he had experienced in the Feeg house.  Upon hearing this
story, the forester, who had always been present at the great hunts near
Klein-Krams, immediately thought about the werewolf who could not be
wounded.  He now thought that he would be able to kill the werewolf.   
At the next hunt he said to his friends, as he rammed a bullet of
inherited silver into the barrel of his rifle, "Today the werewolf will
not escape from me!"  His companions looked at him in amazement, but he
said nothing further.   
The hunt soon began, and it did not take long before the wolf showed
himself once again.  Many of the huntsmen shot at him, but he remained
unwounded.  Finally he approached the forester, who brought him to the
ground.  Everyone could see that the wolf was wounded, but soon he jumped
up again and ran into the village.  The huntsmen followed him, but the
werewolf outran them and disappeared into the Feeg farmyard. 
In their search, the huntsmen came into the house, where they found the
wolf in the grandmother's bed.  They recognized it from the tail that was
sticking out from under the covers. 
The werewolf was no one other than Feeg's grandmother.  In her pain she
had forgotten to take off the strap, and thus she herself revealed the
secret.