Once upon a time there was a poor man, who had a wife and two 
children, a boy and a girl. He was so poor that he possessed 
nothing in the world but the ashes on his hearth.  
 His wife died, and after a time he married another woman, who 
was cantankerous and bad natured, and from morning till evening, 
as long as the day lasted, she gave the poor man no peace, but 
snarled and shouted at him. 
 The woman said to him, "Do away with these children. You cannot 
even keep me. How then can you keep all these mouths?" for was she 
not a stepmother? 
 The poor man stood her nagging for a long time, but then, one 
night, she quarreled so much that he promised her that he would 
take the children into the forest and leave them there. The two 
children were sitting in the corner but held their peace and heard 
all that was going on. 
 The next day, the man, taking his ax upon his shoulder, called 
to the children and said to them, "Come with me into the forest. I 
am going to cut wood." 
 The little children went with him, but before they left, the 
little girl filled her pocket with ashes from the hearth, and as 
she walked along she dropped little bits of coal the way they 
went.  
 After a time they reached a very dense part of the forest, 
where they could not see their way any longer, and there the man 
said to the children, "Wait here for a while. I am only going to 
cut wood yonder. When I have done I will come back and fetch you 
home." And leaving the children there in the thicket, he went 
away, heavy hearted, and returned home. 
 The children waited for a while, and seeing that their father 
did not return, the girl knew what he had done. So they slept 
through the night in the forest, and the next morning, taking her 
brother by the hand, she followed the trace of the ashes which she 
had left on the road, and thus came home to their own house.  
 When the stepmother saw them, she did not know what to do with 
herself. She went almost out of her mind with fury. If she could, 
she would have swallowed them in a spoonful of water, so furious 
was she.  
 The husband, who was a weakling, tried to pacify her, and to 
endeavor to get the children away by one means or another, but did 
not succeed.  
 When the stepmother found that she could not do anything 
through her husband, she made up her mind that she herself would 
get rid of them. So one morning, when her husband had gone away, 
she took the little boy, and without saying anything to anybody, 
she killed him and gave him to his sister to cut him up, and 
prepare a meal for all of them. What was she to do? If she was not 
to be killed like her brother, she had to do what her stepmother 
told her. 
 And so she cut him up and cooked him ready for the meal But she 
took the heart, and hid it away in a hollow of a tree. When the 
stepmother asked her where the heart was, she said that a dog had 
come and taken it away. 
 In the evening, when the husband came home, she brought the 
broth with the meat for the husband to eat, and she sat down and 
ate of it, and so did the husband, not knowing that he was eating 
the flesh of his child. The little girl refused to eat it. She 
would not touch it. After they had finished, she gathered up all 
the little bones and hid them in the hollow of the tree where she 
had put the heart. 
 The next morning, out of that hollow of the tree there came a 
little bird with dark feathers, and sitting on the branch of a 
tree, began to sing, "Cuckoo! My sister has cooked me, and my 
father has eaten me, but I am now a cuckoo and safe from my 
stepmother." 
 When the stepmother, who happened to be near the tree, heard 
what that little bird was singing, in her fury and fright she took 
a heavy lump of salt which lay near at hand, and threw it at the 
cuckoo. But instead of hitting it, the lump fell down on her head 
and killed her on the spot. 
 And the little boy has remained a cuckoo to this very day.