According to an old legend, a long, long time ago horrible lindorms and 
dragons lived in the swamps and lakes of Lower Lusatia. They were like 
snakes, only much larger, and they breathed smoke and flames. They laid to 
waste the surrounding land, and they devoured people and animals in large 
numbers.   
Near the village of Zilmsdorf [Cielmow] (one of the oldest places in 
Lusatia) there is a place out in an open field where flames as tall as a 
man often shoot up from the ground. People call it dragon-fire, and they 
say that the great dragon killed by Saint George lived there.   
Next to the old salt road that leads to Sorau [Zary] is a pile of stones. 
This is where the battle took place, and this is where a stone monument to 
the saint once stood, depicting him high on his horse, lance in hand, and 
with the dragon at his feet.   
This dragon had been eating thirty people every day and laying to waste 
the farmland far and wide. It also was able to assume human form, in which 
it caused the downfall of many people. It would rob them of their money 
and then bury them deep in the woods behind the Forstner Heath.   
Normally it would fly through the air, and when it did so it had to take a 
route above Zilmsdorf. A certain man by the name of Wochner lived there 
who was a well-known exorcist. He had the ability to detain the dragon 
until a crowing cock from the area caught it by surprise. Every time this 
happened it would have to drop its gold.  
  
Note by Karl Haupt:  
 
People made pilgrimages from far and wide to a statue of Saint George near 
Zilmsdorf. In 1615 the provincial governor Count Promnitz had it rebuilt, 
namely at the request of Emperor Matthias (given at a dedication ceremony 
in Sorau in 1611).  In about 1710 the stone was still standing there. On 
the north side was a carving of the knight Saint George on a horse with 
the lindorm beneath him. The stone was seven yards high and three yards 
wide. The inscription from the seventeenth century on the west side read: 
 
 
 
Effigiem Christi dum cernis semper honora  
Non tamen effigiem sed quem designat honora.  
Aspice, mortalis, pro te datur hostia talis. 
 
  
Above this, on a stone cross, was an image of Christ made of gilded tin. 
(Magnus,  Geschichte von Sorau , p. 115)   
Here, in Protestant reinterpretation, the knight is transformed into the 
Savior himself, who "treads upon the serpent's head."