One time, away back yonder, the old sow and her children were all
living longer than the other creatures. It seems to me that the old sow
was a widow-woman, and if I am not mistaken, that that she had five
children. Let me see, there was Big Pig, and there was Little Pig, and
there was Speckled Pig, and there was Blunt, and last and lonesome, there
was Runt. 
 One day this here pig mother, she knew that she was going to kick the
bucket, and she took and called up all her children and told them that the
time had come when they had to look out for themselves. And then she up
and told them as good as she could, although her breath was mighty scant,
about what a bad man old Brer Wolf was. She said that if they could escape
from old Brer Wolf, they'd be doing monstrously well. 
 Big Pig allowed that she wasn't afraid. Speckled Pig allowed that she
wasn't afraid. Blunt, he said that he was almost as big a man as Brer Wolf
himself. And Runt, she just took and rooted around in the straw and
grunted. But old Widow Sow, she lay there, she did, and kept on telling
them that they had better keep their eyes on Brer Wolf, because he was a
very mean and deceitful man. 
 Not long after that, sure enough, old Miss Sow lay down and died, and
all of those children of hers were flung back on themselves, and they
whirled in, they did, and each one built himself a house to live in. Big
Pig, she took and built herself a house out of brush. Little Pig, she took
and built a stick house. Speckled Pig, she took and built a mud house.
Blunt, he took and built a plank house. And Runt, she didn't make any
great to-do, and no great brags, but she went to work, she did, and built
a rock house. 
 By and by, when they had everything fixed up, and matters were sort of
settled, early one morning here came old Brer Wolf licking his chops and
shaking his tail. The first house he came to was Big Pig's house. Brer
Wolf walked up to the door, he did, and he knocked sort of softly,
 blim! blim! blim!  Nobody answered. Then he knocked loudly,  blam!
blam! blam!  This woke up Big Pig, and she came to the door, and she
asked who it was. 
 Brer Wolf allowed it was a friend, and he sang out:
 
If you'll open the door and let me in, 
I'll warm my hands and go home again. 
 
 Big Pig asked again who it was, and then Brer Wolf up and said, "How's
your ma?"  
 "My ma is dead," she said, "and before she died, she told me to keep my
eyes on Brer Wolf. I see you through the crack in the door, and you look
mighty like Brer Wolf." 
 Then old Brer Wolf, he drew a long breath, like he felt very bad, and
then he up and said, "I don't know what changed her mind, unless she was
out of her head. I heard tell that old Miss Sow was sick, and I said to
myself that I'd ought to drop around and see how the old lady is, and
fetch her this here bag of roasting ears. I know might well that if your
ma was here right now, in her right mind, she'd take the roasting ears and
be glad to get them, and more than that, she'd ask me in by the fire to
warm my hands," said old Brer Wolf. 
 The talk about the roasting ears made Big Pig's mouth water, and by and
by, after some more palaver, she opened the door and let Brer Wolf in, and
bless your soul, that was the last of Big Pig. She didn't have time to
squeal, or to grunt either, before Brer Wolf gobbled her up. 
 The next day old Brer Wolf put up the same game on Little Pig. He went
and sang his song, and Little Pig, she took and let him in, and then Brer
Wolf, he took and returned the compliments and let Little Pig in. Little
Pig, she let Brer Wolf in, and Brer Wolf, he let Little Pig in, and what
more can you ask than that? 
 The next time Brer Wolf paid a call, he dropped in on Speckled Pig, and
rapped at the door, and sang his song:
 
If you'll open the door and let me in, 
I'll warm my hands and go home again.
 
 But Speckled Pig, she kind of suspected something, and she refused to
open the door. Yet Brer Wolf was a mighty deceitful man, and he talked
mighty soft, and he talked mighty sweet. By and by, he got his nose in the
crack of the door, and he said to Speckled Pig, to just let him get one
paw in, and then he won't go any further. He got the paw in, and then he
begged to get the other paw in, and then when he got that in, he begged to
get his head in, and then when he got his head in, and his paws in, of
course all he had to do was to shove the door open and walk right in. And
when matters stood that way, it wasn't long before he made fresh meat of
Speckled Pig. 
 The next day, he did away with Blunt, and the day after that he allowed
that he would make a pass at Runt. Now then, right there is where old Brer
Wolf slipped up. He is like some folks I know. He'd have been mighty
smart, if he hadn't been too smart. Runt was the littlest one of the whole
gang, yet all the same, the news was out that she was pestered with sense
like grown folks. 
 Brer Wolf, he crept up to Runt's house, and he got underneath the
window, he did, and he sang out:
  
If you'll open the door and let me in, 
I'll warm my hands and go home again.
 
But all the same, Brer Wolf couldn't coax Runt to open the door, neither
could he break in, because the house was made of rock. By and by Brer Wolf
made out like he'd gone off, and after a while he came back and knocked at
the door,  blam, blam, blam! 
 Runt, she sat by the fire, she did, and sort of scratched her ear,
and hollered out, "Who's that?" 
 "It's Speckled Pig," said old Brer Wolf, between a snort and a grunt.
"I fetched you some peas for your dinner!" 
 Runt, she took and laughed, she did, and hollered back, "Sis Speckled
Pit never talked through that many teeth." 
 Brer Wolf went off again, and by and by he came back and knocked. 
 Runt, she sat on a rock and hollered out, "Who's that?" 
 "Big Pig," said Brer Wolf. I fetched some sweet corn for your
supper." 
 Runt, she looked through the crack underneath the door, and laughed,
and said, "Sis Big Pig didn't ever have any hair on her hooves. 
 Then old Brer Wolf, he got mad, he did, and he said he was going to
come down the chimney. And Runt, she said that that was the only way that
he could get in. And then when she heard Brer Wolf climbing up on the
outside of the chimney, she took and piled up a whole lot of broom straw
in front of the hearth, and when she heard him climbing down on the
inside, she took the tongs and shoved the straw onto the fire, and the
smoke made Brer Wolf's head swim, and he dropped down, and before he knew
it, he was burned to a crackling.  
 And that was the last of old Brer Wolf. At least it was the last of
that Brer Wolf.