The fox and the wolf stole a keg of butter from a peasant and hid it in
a safe place. However, the hiding-place was far from where they lived, and
one day when the fox got the urge to have a taste of the butter by
himself, he felt the necessity of borrowing the wolf's boots for the long
journey. The wolf, of course, asked him why he needed the boots. 
 "Well," said the fox, "I must travel a great distance to a
baptism." 
 "Good," said the wolf, and the fox, wearing the wolf's boots, took off
for the keg. 
 When he returned, the wolf asked him what the child's name was. 
 "Beginning" said the fox, and wolf thought to himself, "That is a nice
name." 
 A short time later the fox came again and asked to borrow the boots,
saying that once again he had to go to a baptism. 
 "Good," said the wolf, and once again the fox set forth wearing the
wolf's boots. 
 When he returned, the wolf asked him, "What is the child's name?" 
 "Middle-of-the-Keg" said the fox, and the wolf thought, "That is an
even nicer name." 
 Some time later the fox came again and said that still another child
was to be baptized. When he brought back the boots, the wolf again asked
him what name the child had been given. 
 "Well," said the fox, "this time his name is Bottom-of-the-Keg." 
 When the fox came a fourth time, the wolf grew somewhat impatient and
asked if there would be no end to the baptisms. 
 "Yes," said the fox. "This is the last time." 
 "If that is so," said the wolf, "then go ahead and put on the boots."
 
 The fox went again to the keg, and licked it clean. Then he filled it
with stones, spread a thin layer of butter over them, and went home. 
 The wolf again asked him what the child's name was, and the fox
answered, "Scrape-out-the-Keg." 
 Some time later the fox proposed to the wolf that the two of them
should go to the keg of butter and have a real feast. Arriving there, they
began quarreling with one another which one should have the first serving.
Unable to decide, they drew straws. The wolf was lucky and drew the longer
one, so he was to begin first. He started eating vigorously, but, of
course, got only a mouthful of stones. 
 You should have seen the wolf and the fox. Each one accused the other
one of eating up the butter. 
 "You did it when you were going to the baptisms," said the wolf. 
 "No," said the fox. "You did it when you knew that I wasn't at
home." 
 But none of this led anywhere. The keg was empty and remained empty, so
they decided to return home without further delay. 
 On their way home they found an old horse in a mire. They wanted to
take it with them and asked one another how they might manage. 
 The fox said, "You are the strongest. Tie the horse's tail around your
body and pull, while I prod the horse with a stick." 
 That happened, and soon the horse was out of the mud, but it then ran
off with the wolf tied to its tail. 
 "Claw your paws into the ground!" cried the fox. 
 "But I can see neither heaven nor earth!" answered the wolf. 
 Finally the wolf succeeded in breaking loose, and he and the fox
continued on their way, but without the horse. 
 When they arrived at home the wolf sat down with his back to the fire,
for he was wet to the bone. Sitting there, he fell asleep. The fox took
some butter and spread it under the wolf's tail. Because of the warmth it
soon melted.  
 Then the fox woke up the wolf and shouted, "Now it is clear who licked
out the butter keg."