There was once upon a time a fisherman and his wife who lived together
in a piss pot near the sea. Every day the fisherman went out fishing, and
he fished a long time. Once he was sitting there fishing and looking into
the clear water when his hook went to the bottom, deep down, and when he
pulled it out, he had caught a large flounder. Then the flounder said to
him, "I beg you to let me live. I am not an ordinary flounder, but an
enchanted prince. Put me back into the water, and let me swim." 
 "Well," said the man, "there's no need to say more. I can certainly let
a fish swim away who knows how to talk." Then he put it back into the
water, and the flounder quickly disappeared to the bottom, leaving a long
trail of blood behind him. 
 The man then went home to his wife in the piss pot and told her that he
had caught a flounder that had told him he was an enchanted prince, and
that he had let it swim away. "Didn't you ask for anything first?" said
the woman. "No," said the man. What should I have asked for?" 
 "Oh," said the woman. "It is terrible living in this piss pot. It is
filled with stench and filth. Go back and ask for a little hut for
us." 
 The man did not want to, but he went back to the sea, and when he
arrived it was all yellow and green, and he stood next to the water and
said: 
 
 
 
 
Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te! 
Flounder, flounder, in the sea! 
My wife, my wife Ilsebill, 
Wants not, wants not, what I will 
 
 
 
 
 The flounder swam up and said, "What does she want then?" 
 "Oh," said the man, "I did catch you, and my wife says that I really
should have asked for something. She doesn't want to live in a piss pot
any longer. She would like to have a hut." 
 "Go home," said the flounder. "She already has it." 
 The man went home, and his wife was standing in the door of a hut, and
she said to him, "Come in. See, now isn't this much better." And there was
a parlor and a bedroom and a kitchen; and outside there was a little
garden with all kinds of vegetables, and a yard with hens and ducks. 
 "Oh," said the man. "Now we can live well." 
 "Yes," said the woman, "we'll give it a try." 
 Everything went well for a week or two, and then the woman said,
"Husband. This hut is too small. The yard and the garden are too little. I
want to live in a large stone castle. Go back to the flounder and tell him
to get a castle for us." 
 "Oh, wife," said the man. The flounder has just given us the hut. I
don't want to go back so soon. It may make the flounder angry." 
 "I know he can do it," said the woman, "and he won't mind. Just
go!" 
 So, with a heavy heart, the man went back, and when he came to the sea,
the water was quite purple and gray and dark blue, but it was still, and
he stood there and said: 
 
Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te! 
Flounder, flounder, in the sea! 
My wife, my wife Ilsebill, 
Wants not, wants not, what I will.
 
 "What does she want then?" said the flounder. 
 "Oh," said the man sadly, "my wife wants to live in a stone
castle." 
 "Go home. She's already standing before the door," said the
flounder. 
 So the man went home, and his wife was standing in front of a large
palace. 
 "See, husband," she said. "Isn't this beautiful?" And with that they
went inside together. There were many servants inside, and the walls were
all white, and there were golden chairs and tables in the parlor, and
outside the castle there was a garden and a forest a half mile long, and
there were elk and deer and rabbits, and there were cow and horse stalls
in the yard. 
 "Oh," said the man, "now we can stay in this beautiful castle and be
satisfied." 
 "We'll think about it," said the woman. "Let's sleep on it." And with
that they went to bed. 
 The next morning the woman awoke. It was daylight. She poked her
husband in the side with her elbow and said, "Husband, get up. We should
be king over all this land." 
 "Oh, wife," said the man, "why do you want to be king? I don't want to
be king." 
 "Well, I want to be king." 
 "Oh, wife," said the man, "how can you be king? The flounder won't want
to do that." 
 "Husband," said the woman, "Go there immediately. I want to be
king." 
 So the man, saddened because his wife wanted to be king, went back. And
when he arrived at the sea it was dark gray, and the water heaved up from
below. He stood there and said: 
 
Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te! 
Flounder, flounder, in the sea! 
My wife, my wife Ilsebill, 
Wants not, wants not, what I will.
 
 "What does she want then," said the flounder. 
 "Oh," said the man, "my wife wants to be king." 
 "Go home. She's already king," said the flounder. 
 Then the man went home, and when he arrived at the palace, there were
so many soldiers, and drums, and trumpets, and his wife was sitting on a
high throne of gold and diamonds, and she was wearing a large golden crown
and on either side of her there stood a line of maidens-in-waiting, each
one a head shorter than the other. 
 "Oh," said the man, "are you king now?" 
 "Yes," she said, "I am king." 
 And after he had looked at her awhile, he said, "It is nice that you
are king. Now we don't have to wish for anything else." 
 "No, husband," she said, "I have been king too long. I can't stand it
any longer. I am king, but now I would like to become emperor." 
 "Oh," said the man, "why do you want to become emperor?" 
 "Husband," she said, "go to the flounder. I want to be emperor." 
 "Oh, wife," said the man, "he can't make you emperor. I can't tell him
to do that." 
 "I am king," said the woman, "and you are my husband. Now go there
immediately!" 
 So the man went, and on his way he thought, "This is not going to end
well. To ask to be emperor is shameful. The flounder is going to get tired
of this." With that he arrived at the sea. The water was entirely black
and dense, and a strong wind blew over him that curdled the water. He
stood there and said: 
 
Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te! 
Flounder, flounder, in the sea! 
My wife, my wife Ilsebill, 
Wants not, wants not, what I will.
 
 "What does she want then," said the flounder. 
 "Oh," he said, "my wife wants to become emperor." 
 "Go home," said the flounder. "She's already emperor." 
 Then the man went home, and when he arrived, his wife was sitting on a
very high throne made of one piece of gold, and she was wearing a large
golden crown that was two yards high, and guards were standing at her
side, each one smaller than the other, beginning with the largest giant
and ending with the littlest dwarf, who was no larger than my little
finger. Many princes and counts were standing in front of her. The man
went and stood among them and said, "Wife, are you emperor now?" 
 "Yes," she said, "I am emperor." 
 "Oh," said the man, taking a good look at her. "Wife, it's good that
you are emperor." 
 "Husband," she said. "Why are you standing there? I'm emperor now, and
I want to become pope as well." 
 "Oh, wife!" said the man. "Why do you want to become pope. There is
only one pope in all Christendom." 
 "Husband," she said, "I want to become pope before the day is
done." 
 "No, wife," he said, "the flounder cannot make you pope. It's not
good." 
 "Husband, what nonsense! If he can make me emperor, then he can make me
pope as well. Now go there immediately!" 
 Then the man went, and he felt sick all over, and his knees and legs
were shaking, and the wind was blowing, and the water looked like it was
boiling, and ships, tossing and turning on the waves, were firing their
guns in distress. There was a little blue in the middle of the sky, but on
all sides it had turned red, as in a terrible lightning storm. Full of
despair he stood there and said: 
 
Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te! 
Flounder, flounder, in the sea! 
My wife, my wife Ilsebill, 
Wants not, wants not, what I will.
 
 "What does she want then?" said the flounder. 
 "Oh," said the man, "my wife wants to become pope." 
 "Go home," said the flounder. "She's already pope." 
 Then he went home, and when he arrived there, his wife was sitting on a
throne that was two miles high, and she was wearing three large crowns.
She was surrounded with church-like splendor, and at her sides there were
two banks of candles. The largest was as thick and as tall as the largest
tower, down to the smallest kitchen candle. "Wife," said the man, giving
her a good look, "are you pope now?" 
 "Yes," she said, "I am pope." 
 "Oh," said the man. "It is good that you are pope. Wife, we can be
satisfied, now that you are pope. There's nothing else that you can
become." 
 "I have to think about that," said the woman. Then they both went to
bed, but she was not satisfied. Her desires would not let her sleep. She
kept thinking what she wanted to become next. Then the sun came up. "Aha,"
she thought, as she watched the sunrise through her window. "Couldn't I
cause the sun to rise?" Then she became very grim and said to her husband,
"Husband, go back to the flounder. I want to become like God." 
 The man, who was still mostly asleep, was so startled that he fell out
of bed. "Oh, wife," he said, "go on as you are and remain pope." 
 "No," said the woman, tearing open her bodice. "I will not be quiet. I
can't stand it when I see the sun and the moon coming up, and I can't
cause them to rise. I want to become like God!" 
 "Oh, wife," said the man. "The flounder can't do that. He can make you
emperor and pope, but he can't do that." 
 "Husband," she said, looking very gruesome, "I want to become like God.
Go to the flounder right now!" 
 The man trembled with fear at every joint. Outside there was a terrible
storm. Trees and mountains were shaking. The heaven was completely black,
and there was thunder and lightning. In the sea he could see black waves
as high as mountains, and they were capped with white crowns of foam. He
said: 
 
Mandje! Mandje! Timpe Te! 
Flounder, flounder, in the sea! 
My wife, my wife Ilsebill, 
Wants not, wants not, what I will.
 
 "What does she want then," said the flounder. 
 "Oh," he said, "she wants to become like God." 
 "Go home. She is sitting in her piss pot again." 
 And they are sitting there even today.