In Flanders there was a group of young folks who lived for gaming,
eating, drinking, and merrymaking. They made these follies and excesses
even worse with their wanton and blasphemous curses and oaths. 
 As my story begins, three of these riotous fellows were drinking in a
tavern when from the street they heard the sound of a bell accompanying a
coffin to its grave. 
 "Go and ask whose corpse is passing by," said one of them to a servant
boy. 
 "I already know who it is," replied the boy. "He was an old friend of
yours. Last night he was suddenly slain while seated dead drunk on his
bench. The silent thief who struck him down is the one named Death, the
same Death who has taken so many people in our country of late. Be on
guard yourselves lest this adversary take you as well!" 
 "The boy is right," added the tavern keeper. "In a village only a mile
from here Death has taken man, woman, child, and servant. He must be
nearby. Take care, or he will do you harm!" 
 "Would meeting him be such a peril?" interjected one of the drinkers,
then swore an oath on God's sacred bones that he would seek him out.
"Listen, friends," he added, "We three have always been as one. Let each
of us now hold up his hand and swear an oath of brotherhood. Together we
will slay this traitor Death!" 
 And thus with a blasphemous curse, they swore to live and die for each
other and together to seek out and challenge Death before the next
nightfall. In a drunken rage they set forth toward the village of which
the tavern keeper had spoken, swearing grisly oaths as they went. 
 They had not gone a half mile before they met a poor old man. He
greeted them humbly, "God be with you, my lords." 
 The proudest of these unruly men replied, "Hey, old man, why are you
still hanging onto life at your great age?" 
 The old man looked him in the face and said, "Because wherever I have
wandered, no one will exchange his youth for my age. Thus I must keep my
age for as long as it is God's will. Alas, not even Death wants my
life." 
 At the sound of Death's name, one of the gamblers interrupted. "You
mention that traitor Death, the one who is killing all our friends. Are
you his spy? Are you one of his servants, sent to slay us young folks?
Tell us where he is, or pay the price!" 
 "Well, sirs," he said, "If what you want is to find Death, just turn up
this crooked path. I left him sitting under a tree in a grove. He'll still
be there. You'll find him." 
 The three unruly men ran until they came to the tree, and there they
found a pile of golden florins, well nigh onto eight bushels of them, they
thought. The sight of all the bright and beautiful florins quickly caused
them to abandon their search for Death, and their thoughts turned to how
they might best protect their newly found treasure. 
 The worst of them spoke the first word, "Brothers," he said, "Fortune
has given us this great treasure, but if we carry it home by light of day,
people will call us thieves, and our own treasure will send us to the
gallows. We must take it home by night, and then with utmost prudence and
caution. Let us draw lots to see which one of us should run to town and
secretly bring back bread and wine. The other two will stay here and guard
the treasure. Then in the night we will carry the treasure to wherever we
think is best." 
 The lot fell to the youngest, and he immediately departed for the
town. 
 He had no sooner left when the one said to the other, "You are my sworn
brother, and I will tell you what will profit you the most. You know our
friend has gone. There is gold here aplenty, but our shares will be much
greater if we divide it by two than if we divide it by three. 
 "That's true, said the other, "but what can we do?" 
 The first one answered, "The two of us are stronger than the one of
him. You engage him in a playful wrestling game, and I will run my dagger
through his back. Then you do the same thing with your dagger, and all
this gold will be for you and me alone." 
 Now the youngest, while walking toward the town, thought over and over
again about the bright new florins. "If only I could have this treasure to
myself," he said, "then I would be the happiest man alive!" 
 The Fiend, our Adversary, put into his heart the thought that he might
buy poison and thus kill his two friends. And so, arriving in the town, he
sought out an apothecary whom he asked for a poison to kill rats and also
a polecat that was in his yard. 
 The apothecary answered, "Here is a mixture that will kill any
creature, even if it were to eat an amount no larger than a kernel of
grain." 
 Carrying this poison in a box, he ran to the next street where he
borrowed three bottles. He poured poison into two of them, keeping the
third one clean for his own drink. Then he filled all three bottles with
wine and returned to his friends. 
 But why make a sermon of it? They killed him, just as they had planned,
and when the deed was done, one of them said, "Now let us sit and drink
and make merry. Afterward we will bury his body." And while still talking,
he drank from the poisoned bottle, and his friend drank as well, and thus
the two of them died.