Popefigs 
 
The Fourth Book of Pantagruel.   
Pantagruel ... was told that for the last three years there had raged in 
the island a pestilence so horrible, that the half or more of the country 
had remained desolate, and the lands without occupiers. When the 
pestilence had gone by, this man ... was plowing a large and fertile piece 
of ground and sowing it with wheat at the very day and hour that a small 
devil (one who did not know how to thunder or hail except only on parsley 
and cabbages, and moreover could not yet read or write) had obtained leave 
from Lucifer to go for a holiday and recreation in this Island of the 
Popefigs, wherein the devils were very familiar with the men and women, 
and often went there to pass their time.   
This devil, having got to the place, addressed himself to the laborer, and 
asked him what he was doing. The poor man answered him that he was sowing 
this field with wheat, to help him to live the following year.   
"Nay, but this field is none of thine," said the devil. "It is mine, and 
belongs to me; for ... all this country was adjudged, proscribed and given 
up to us. To sow corn, however, is not my province; wherefore I leave thee 
the field, but on condition that we share the profit."   
"I am willing," answered the laborer.   
"I mean," said the devil, "that we are to make two lots of the profit that 
results. One shall be that which grows above the earth, the other that 
which shall be covered by the earth. The right of choosing belongs to me, 
for I am a devil, born of a noble and ancient race; thou art but a clown. 
I make choice of that which shall be in the earth. Thou shall have that 
which is above. At what time shall be the in-gathering?"   
"About the middle of July," answered the laborer.   
"Very well," said the devil, "I will not fail to be here. Meantime do as 
is thy duty to do. Work, villain, work. I am off to tempt to the gallant 
sin of luxury, the noble nuns of Pette-sec, also the cowled hypocrites and 
gluttons. Of their desires I am more than assured. They have but to meet, 
and the combat takes place."   
When mid July had come, the devil presented himself at the place, 
accompanied by a troop of little devilkins of the choir. There, finding 
the laborer, he said, "Now, villain, how hast thou done since my 
departure? It is fitting now that we should make out our shares."   
"It is but reason," answered the laborer. Then the laborer and his men 
began to reap the corn. The devilkins likewise pulled up the stubble from 
the earth. The laborer threshed his corn on the threshing floor, winnowed 
it, put it in sacks and carried it to market to sell. The imps did the 
same, and set themselves down at the marketplace, near the laborer, to 
sell their stubble.   
The laborer sold his corn very well, and with the money filled an old 
half-buskin, which he carried at his girdle. The devils sold nothing. Nay, 
on the contrary, the peasants jeered at them in open market.   
When the market was over, the devil said to the laborer, "Villain, thou 
hast cheated me this time. Next time thou shall not do so."   
"Master Devil," said the laborer, "how could I have cheated you, when you 
had the first choice? The truth is, that in this choice you thought to 
cheat me, expecting that nothing would come out of the earth for my share, 
and that you would find below the whole of the grain which I had sown, 
intending therewith to tempt the poor and needy, the hypocrites, or the 
misers, and by temptation to make them fall into your snares. But you are 
mighty young at your trade. The grain which you see in the earth is dead 
and rotten. The corruption of that has caused the generation of the other, 
which you saw me sell. So you do choose the worse. That is why you are 
cursed in the Gospel."   
"Let us leave this subject," said the devil. "What canst thou sow our 
field with next year? "   
"To make a profit like a good husbandman," said the laborer, "the proper 
thing would be to sow turnips."   
"Well," said the devil, "thou art an honest clown. Sow turnips in 
abundance. I will guard them from the storm, and will not hail upon them. 
But understand thoroughly: I retain for my share that which shall be above 
ground. Thou shall have all that is below. Work, villain, work. I am off 
to tempt the heretics. Their souls are dainty morsels when broiled on the 
coals. My lord Lucifer has the colic; they will make a tid-bit for him."  
 
When the time of gathering was come, the devil appeared on the ground with 
a squadron of waiting devilkins. There, finding the laborer and his men, 
he began to cut and gather the leaves of the turnips. After him the 
laborer dug and pulled up the big turnips, and put them into sacks. So 
they all go off together to market. The laborer sold his turnips very 
well. The devil sold nothing, and, what was worse, they jeered at him 
publicly.   
"I see very well, villain," said the devil, "that I have been cheated by 
thee. I will make an end of the business between thee and me.