There are a king and a queen of a certain city, and there is a daughter
of the queen.
 They asked permission to summon the daughter to go in marriage to the
prince of another city. The king said, "Ha," so they came from that city
to summon the king's princess. After coming, they told the bride to come
out of her chamber in order to eat the rice of the wedding feast.
 The queen said, "She is eating cooked rice in the house."
 Then they told her to come out in order to dress her in the robes sent
by the bridegroom. The queen said, "She is putting on robes in her
chamber."
 Then they told her to come out in order to go to the bridegroom's city.
So the queen told two persons to come, and, having put a female mouseling
in an incense box, brought it, and gave it into the hands of the two
persons, and said, "Take this, and until seven days have gone by, do not
open the mouth of the box."
 Having taken it to the city, when they opened the mouth of the box
after seven days, a mouse sprang out, and hid itself among the cooking
pots.
 There was also a servant girl at the prince's house. The girl
apportioned and gave cooked rice and vegetable curry to the prince, and
covered up the cooking pots containing the rest of the food. Then the
mouseling came and, having taken and eaten some of the cooked rice and
vegetables, covered up the cooking pots, and went again among the pots.
 On the following day the same thing occurred. The prince said to the
girl, "Does the mouseling eat the cooked rice? Look and come back."
 The girl, having gone and looked, came back and said, "She has eaten
the cooked rice, and covered the cooking pots, and has gone."
 The prince said, "Go also, and eat rice, and come back." So the girl
went and ate rice, and returned.
 Next day the prince said, "I am going to cut paddy (growing rice).
Remain at the house, and in the evening place the articles for cooking
near the hearth." Then the prince went. Afterwards, in the evening, the
girl placed the things for cooking near the hearth, and went out of the
way.
 The mouseling came, and cooked, and placed the food ready, and again
went behind the pots. After evening had come, that girl apportioned and
gave the rice to the prince. The prince ate, and told the girl, "Go also,
and eat rice, and come back." So the girl went and ate rice, and, having
covered the cooking pots, came to the place where the prince was.
 Then the mouseling came and ate rice, and covered up the pots. After
that, she said to the other mice, "Let us go and cut the paddy," and,
collecting a great number of mice, cut all the paddy, and again returned
to the house, and stayed among the pots. Next day when the prince went to
the rice field to cut the paddy, all had been cut.
 Afterwards the prince came back, and, saying "Let us go and collect and
stack the paddy," collected the men, and stacked it, and threshed it by
trampling it with buffaloes. Then they went and called the women, and,
having got rid of the chaff in the wind, brought the paddy home.
 After they had brought it, the prince went near the place where the
cooking pots were stored, at which the mouseling was hidden, and said,
"Having pounded this paddy to remove the husk, and cooked rice, let us go
to your village to present it to your parents as the first-fruits."
 The mouseling said, "I will not. You go."
 So the prince told the girl to pound the paddy and cook rice, and
having done this she gave it to the prince.
 The prince took the package of cooked rice, and went to the mouseling's
village, and gave it to the mouseling's mother.
 The queen asked at the hand of the prince, "Where is the girl?"
 The prince said, "She refused to come."
 The queen said, "Go back to the city, and, having placed the articles
for cooking near the hearth, get hid, and stay in the house."
 After the prince returned to the city, he did as she had told him. The
mouseling, having come out, took off her mouse jacket, and, assuming her
shape as a girl, put on other clothes. While she was preparing to cook,
the prince took the mouse jacket and burnt it.
 Afterwards, when the girl went to the place where the mouse jacket had
been, and looked for it, it was not there. Then she looked in the hearth,
and saw that there was one sleeve in it. While she was there weeping and
weeping, the prince came forward and said, "Your mother told me to burn
the mouse jacket."
 So the mouseling became the princess again, and the prince and princess
remained there.