[The city of Korneuburg adjacent to Vienna was conquered by the Swedes
during the Thirty Years' War in 1646.] Following an occupation of
six months Korneuburg was taken back by the imperial forces. The city had by that
time expanded substantially, but many of its buildings lay buried in
rubble. Vermin, especially rats, multiplied beneath the ruins of the
destroyed buildings until no cellar and no food storage room was safe from
their devastation. Neither cats, nor traps, nor poison could bring them
under control, and the city's inhabitants felt forced to flee. 
 A public meeting of the town council was held to decide once and for
all whether to attempt continued but futile resistance against the animals
or to simply abandon one's belongings, which in truth were no longer
belongings at all. 
 There were spirited arguments back and forth when suddenly and
unexpectedly a man stepped before the judge's bench and stated that he
possessed the means to put an end to the city's plague. No one knew him,
but his offer was accepted with loud acclaim. Everyone looked forward with
fond anticipation to the next morning, when the promised rescue was to
take place.  In return for his deed the rescuer was to be paid a large sum
of money. 
 As the cock crowed the man did indeed enter at the gate. He was wearing
an unusual hunting outfit and carrying a very large hunter's bag. He
pulled from the bag a small black transverse flute, upon which he played
mournful melodies.  Hoards of rats and mice followed the flute's sound,
emerging in great masses from their holes in every corner of every house
in the city.  They followed the flute player, who walked directly toward
the Danube. There he stepped into a boat and -- continuing to play the
flute -- rode to the middle of the stream.  Irresistibly attracted to the
music, the rats attempted to swim after him, but they all drowned in the
river's raging current.  Thus Korneuburg was saved. 
 The piper now returned and asked for the agreed payment. 
 Someone asked him who he  was. 
 "I came here from Vienna," he said, "because I heard of your need. My
name is Hans Mousehole, and I am the official rat killer of Magdalenengrund
[a former suburb of Vienna, now part of the Mariahilf district]." 
 "Any fool can say that," answered a most wise councilman. "We know full
well that your help is not of this world. Are you in league with the Evil
One? Now see here, there is no obligation to keep one's word with black
magicians or kobolds, so just take your leave, or we will turn you over to
a witches' court." 
 "My dear people," replied the ratcatcher, "your sense of honor is
remarkable, for it seems to be directed at saving you money.  But hear me
out. You have no right to question the means by which I saved your city
from the plague. It is sufficient that it is free. I have no intention of
allowing myself to be chased out of your city, and I am even less inclined
to reveal to you the inner workings of my deeds, which seemed so
miraculous to you. Take note that there are not merely evil, but also good
higher powers. I used the latter to do good for you, for good things can
come only from that which is good. But if you ungrateful people cheat me
out of my well earned pay then you will come to know the evil powers as
well. Thus take heed of my final word. In your city there is a recess in
the wall of the house not far from the church and at its right side. Place
the payment we agreed upon there before the next dawn. If you fail to do
so, I will find my own reward." 
 He departed, followed by the loud and derisive laughter of the
councilmen. 
 It should come as no surprise that the next morning there was no money
lying in the niche. 
 With the sun's first rays Korneuburg experienced its own drama. Hans
Mousehole, dressed in a purple-red robe and playing a golden flute, stood
at the marketplace in front of the town hall. The melodious tunes that he
evoked from his instrument must have sounded like music from heaven to the
children, for they gathered about the mysterious musician with joyful
haste.  Still playing, he walked toward the Danube, where a large and
handsome ship awaited him. 
 Led by the flute player, the procession boarded the ship. Its sails
billowed, and it floated out to the middle of the stream. 
 This time the ratcatcher did not return. To the contrary, the ship
sailed further and further from the city, and neither it nor any who were
aboard were ever seen there again. 
 Many years later the horrified citizens of Korneuburg received news
that in that same year a large number of children had been placed up for
sale in the slave markets of Constantinople. They had no doubt that the
children were theirs, and they rued their lack of honor, but too late. 
 History has recorded that Korneuburg was freed of rats at the time
stated above and by a ratcatcher from Vienna in the manner described.
Until not long ago there was a small rectangular marble plaque on a house
in Pfarrgäßchen Street. On it could be seen an upright rat, a
weathered gothic inscription, and the designation of a year, of which only
the number IV could be made out. Also -- in remembrance of the event --
herdsmen from the area called their cattle and sheep together by cracking
a whip instead of blowing on a cow horn. 
 Rats returned to the area with the great flood of 1801. Since then
herdsmen have given their signals with a horn, as they had done ages
ago. 
 The story of the abducted children, which bears a close resemblance to
the legend of the Ratcatcher of Hameln, is undoubtedly based on a factual
event.  It may well be that during the sad times of the Thirty Years' War
a flashy army piper enticed the city's youth into military service and led
them away with him, and that none of the recruits returned, for they met
death on the battlefield.