Once upon a time there was a cock and a mouse.  
 One day the mouse said to the cock, "Friend cock, shall we go and eat
some nuts on yonder tree?" 
 "As you like." 
 So they both went under the tree, and the mouse climbed up at once and
began to eat. The poor cock began to fly, and flew and flew, but could not
come where the mouse was. When it saw that there was no hope of getting
there, it said, "Friend mouse, do you know what I want you to do? Throw me
a nut." 
 The mouse went and threw one and hit the cock on the head. The poor
cock, with its head broken and all covered with blood, went away to an old
woman. "Old aunt, give me some rags to cure my head." 
 "If you will give me two hairs, I will give you the rags." 
 The cock went away to a dog. "Dog, give me some hairs. The hairs I will
give the old woman. The old woman will give me rags to cure my head." 
 "If you will give me a little bread," said the dog, "I will give you
the hairs." 
 The cock went away to a baker. "Baker, give me bread. I will give the
bread to the dog. The dog will give hairs. The hairs I will carry to the
old woman. The old woman will give me rags to cure my head." 
 The baker answered, "I will not give you bread unless you give me some
wood!" 
 The cock went away to the forest. "Forest, give me some wood. The wood
I will carry to the baker. The baker will give me some bread. The bread I
will give to the dog. The dog will give me hairs. The hairs I will carry
to the old woman. The old woman will give me rags to cure my head." 
 The forest answered, "If you will bring me a little water, I will give
you some wood." 
 The cock went away to a fountain. "Fountain, give me water. Water I
will carry to the forest. Forest will  give wood. Wood I will carry to the
baker. Baker will give bread. Bread I will give dog. Dog will give hairs.
Hairs I will give old woman. Old woman will give rags to cure my
head." 
 The fountain gave him water. The water he carried to the forest. The
forest gave him wood. The wood he carried to the baker. The baker gave him
bread. The bread he gave to the dog. The dog gave him the hairs. The hairs
he carried to the old woman. the old woman gave him the rags. And the cock
cured his head.