A shoemaker, through no fault of his own, had become so poor that he had 
only leather enough for a single pair of shoes. He cut them out one 
evening, then went to bed, intending to finish them the next morning. 
Having a clear conscience, he went to bed peacefully, commended himself to 
God, and fell asleep. The next morning, after saying his prayers, he was 
about to return to his work when he found the shoes on his workbench, 
completely finished. Amazed, he did not know what to say. He picked up the 
shoes in order to examine them more closely. They were so well made that 
not a single stitch was out of place, just as if they were intended as a 
masterpiece. A customer soon came by, and he liked the shoes so much that 
he paid more than the usual price for them.  
The shoemaker now had enough money to buy leather for two pairs of shoes. 
That evening he cut them out, intending to continue his work the next 
morning with good cheer. But he did not need to do so, because when he got 
up they were already finished. Customers soon bought them, paying him 
enough that he now could buy leather for four pairs of shoes. Early the 
next morning he found the four pairs finished. And so it continued; 
whatever he cut out in the evening was always finished the following 
morning. He now had a respectable income and with time became a wealthy 
man.  
One evening shortly before Christmas, just before going to bed, and having 
already cut out a number of shoes, he said to his wife, "Why don't we stay 
up tonight and see who is giving us this helping hand."  
His wife agreed to this and lit a candle. Then they hid themselves behind 
some clothes that were hanging in a corner of the room. At midnight two 
cute little naked men appeared. Sitting down at the workbench, they picked 
up the cut-out pieces and worked so unbelievable quickly and nimbly that 
the amazed shoemaker could not take his eyes from them. They did not stop 
until they had finished everything. They placed the completed shoes on the 
workbench, then quickly ran away.  
The next morning the wife said, "The little men have made us wealthy. We 
must show them our thanks. They are running around with nothing on, 
freezing. Do you know what? I want to sew some shirts, jackets, 
undershirts, and trousers for them, and knit a pair of stockings for each 
of them, and you should make a pair of shoes for each of them."  
The husband said, "I agree," and that evening, when everything was 
finished, they set the presents out instead of the unfinished work. Then 
they hid themselves in order to see what the little men would do. At 
midnight they came skipping up, intending to start work immediately. When 
they saw the little clothes instead of the cut-out leather, they at first 
seemed puzzled, but then delighted. They quickly put them on, then 
stroking the beautiful clothes on their bodies they sang:  
 
 
 
  Sind wir nicht Knaben glatt und fein? 
Was sollen wir länger Schuster sein!   
 
  Are we not boys, neat and fine? 
No longer cobblers shall we be! 
 
 
 
 
Then they hopped and danced about, jumping over chairs and benches. Finally they danced out of the house. They never returned, but the shoemaker prospered, succeeding in everything that he did.