Once upon a time there lived a little boy whose mother had died and whose father had remarried. But his stepmother didn't like him, so she fed him old, moldy crusts of bread. Whenever he went out into the fields, he always put them into the spring to soften them.  
One day he was sitting by the water, when a poor man passed by and called out to him: "What are you doing here?"  
"I am soaking the moldy crusts of bread that my stepmother gave me to eat."  
"Give me one."  
The boy gave the beggar some crusts of bread, who ate them and then said: "You have done a good deed, and as a reward I will grant you three wishes. What would you like?"  
The boy scratched his head, then finally said, "First of all, I want my stepmother to soil her underwear every time I look at her."  
The beggar didn't reply, so the boy continued: "I also would like a small pistol for shooting birds, such that anyone who sees me shooting must run after the bullet."  
The beggar pulled out a small pistol from his pocket and handed it to the boy, saying, "What is your third wish?"  
"I would like a clarinet such that all those who watch or listen to my playing shall be compelled to dance."  
The beggar gave him a clarinet and disappeared.  
The boy went home. His stepmother was just tethering the cow in the stable when he entered. As soon as he looked at her, she soiled her underclothes, and this happened every time he looked at her.  
The next day she was invited to a wedding. She warned her husband to lock the boy up in a shed near the house, for she was afraid that her illness might return. Around noon, however, the father released the boy and told him to check on his stepmother. She was seated between two gentlemen at the wedding table. The boy went to a window and looked at his stepmother, who immediately soiled herself so much that everyone had to hold their noses. Finally they made her leave.  
The boy hurried back to the shed so that when his stepmother came home and checked she found him inside.  
"Surely there must be some magic behind this!" she cried.  
The next day she went to confession and told the priest everything.  
The priest comforted her by saying, "I will come to you and force the boy to tell me about the magic he uses."  
He went to the field where the spring was and noticed the boy soaking his crusts of bread.  
"What are you doing there?" asked the priest.  
"I am soaking the moldy bread crusts that my stepmother gives me to eat."  
"You are suspected of practicing magic."  
"Oh, who says that?"  
"If you will tell me the truth, I'll give you a nice picture next Sunday."  
"I don't need a picture, but if you'll strip naked, you shall learn everything."  
The priest took off his cassock and trousers, but kept on his underpants and undershirt. However, the boy insisted that he strip naked, and since no one else was around the priest stripped off the rest of his clothing.  
The boy then shot his pistol into a thorny thicket. Immediately the priest ran after the bullet. When he was in the middle of the thicket, the boy began to play the clarinet, so that the priest, despite the thorns, had to dance.  
The priest shouted, "You're a magician! You're a magician!" but he had to keep dancing.  
Finally the boy stopped blowing, and the priest, all scratched and bleeding, was able to get dressed and go on his way.  
He told the court the how the boy had tricked him, saying that he should be hanged. The bailiffs brought the boy before the judges, and he was sentenced to death. Before the execution, one of the judges asked him if he had a last wish.  
"Yes," replied the boy, "I should like to take a walk along the pond, fire a pistol shot, and play my clarinet one more time."  
They granted him this request.  
The priest called: "He is a magician, tie me up!"  
People thought he was a fool, but in the end they tied him up.  
Everyone present at the court session went to the pond with the boy. As soon as he got there, led by two guards, he fired his pistol and they all followed the bullet into the water. He immediately picked up his clarinet and began to play, so that everyone in the water began to dance and finally drowned.  
The boy freed the priest, and they both happily returned home.  
(Upper Brittany)