A wild boar was wreaking havoc throughout the country. No one dared
venture into the forest where it ran about. With its tusks it ripped to
pieces anyone who was bold enough to pursue it and attempt to kill it.
Then the king proclaimed that anyone who could kill the boar would receive
his daughter for a wife.
 There were three brothers in the kingdom. The oldest was sly and
clever; the second was of ordinary intelligence; but the third and
youngest was innocent and slow witted. They wanted to win the princess, so
they set forth to seek out the wild boar and kill it.
 The two oldest ones went together, while the youngest one went by
himself. When he entered the woods an old man approached him. He was
holding a black lance in his hand, and said to him, "Take this lance and
fearlessly attack the boar with it, and you will kill it." And that is
what happened. He struck the boar with the lance, and it fell dead to the
earth. Then he lifted it onto his shoulder, and cheerfully set off toward
home.
 On the way he came to a house where his brothers were making merry and
drinking wine. When they saw him with the boar on his back, they called to
him, "Come in and have a drink with us. You must be tired." The innocent
simpleton, not thinking about any danger, went inside and told them how he
had killed the boar with the black lance, and rejoiced in his good
fortune. That evening they returned home together. The two oldest ones
plotted to kill their brother. They let him walk ahead of them, and when
they came to a bridge just outside the city, they attacked him, striking
him dead. They buried him beneath the bridge. Then the oldest one took the
boar, carried it to the king, claimed that he had killed it, and received
the princess for a wife.
 Many years passed, but it was not to remain hidden. One day a shepherd
was crossing the bridge when he saw a little bone beneath him in the sand.
It was so pure and snow-white that he wanted it to make a mouthpiece from,
so he climbed down and picked it up. Afterward he made a mouthpiece from
it for his horn, and when he put it to his lips to play, the little bone
began to sing by itself:
 
Oh, dear shepherd 
You are blowing on my bone. 
My brothers struck me dead, 
And buried me beneath the bridge, 
To get the wild boar 
For the daughter of the king. 
The shepherd took the horn to the king, and once again it sang the same
words. After hearing this, the king had his people dig under the bridge,
and they soon uncovered the skeleton. The two wicked brothers confessed
their crime and were thrown into the water. The murdered brother's bones
were laid to rest in a beautiful grave in the churchyard.