John Roy, who lived in Glenbroun, in the parish of Abernethy, being out
one night on the hills in search of his cattle, met a troop of fairies,
who seemed to have got a prize of some sort or other. Recollecting that
the fairies are obliged to exchange whatever they may have with any one
who offers them anything, however low in value, for it, he flung his
bonnet to them, crying  Shuis slo slumus sheen  ( i.e ., mine is
yours and yours is mine). The fairies dropped their booty, which proved to
be a Sassenach (English) lady whom the dwellers of Shian of Coir-laggac
had carried away from her own country, leaving a stock in her place which,
of course, died and was buried.  
 John brought her home, and she lived for many years in his house. 
 "It happened, however, in the course of time," said the Gaelic
narrator, "that the  new king  found it necessary to make the great
roads through these countries by means of soldiers, for the purpose of
letting coaches and carriages pass to the northern cities; and those
soldiers had officers and commanders in the same way as our fighting army
have now. Those soldiers were never great favorites in these countries,
particularly during the time that our kings were alive; and consequently
it was no easy matter for them, either officers or men, to procure for
themselves comfortable quarters." 
 But John Roy would not keep up the national animosity to the  cottan
dearg  (red-coats), and he offered a residence in his house to a
 Saxon  captain and his son. When there they could not take their
eyes off the English lady, and the son remarked to his father what a
strong likeness she bore to his deceased mother. 
 The father replied that he too had been struck with the resemblance,
and said he could almost fancy she  was  his wife. He then mentioned
her name and those of some persons connected with them. The lady by these
words at once recognized her husband and son, and honest John Roy had the
satisfaction of reuniting the long-separated husband and wife, and
receiving their most grateful acknowledgments.