Once upon a time a certain country was ravaged by 
a Rakhas to such an extent that there were only the 
Raja and a few ryots left. When things came to this 
pass, the Raja saw that something must be done: for 
he could not be left alone in the land. Ryots need a 
Raja and a Raja needs ryots: if he had no ryots where 
was he to get money for his support: and he repeated 
the verse of the poet Kalidas: 

 
When the jungle is destroyed, the deer are in trouble 
without jungle:  
When the Raja is destroyed, the ryots are in trouble 
without their Raja:  
When the good wife of the house is destroyed, 
good fortune flees away.
  

So thinking the Raja made a proclamation throughout 
all the land that if any one could kill the Rakhas he 
would reward him with the hand of one of his daughters 
and half his kingdom. This proclamation was read out 
by the headman of a certain village to the assembled 
villagers and among the crowd was a mischievous youth, 
named Jhalka, who when he heard the proclamation called 
out that he could kill the Rakhas in ten minutes.   
The villagers turned on him, "Why don't you go and do 
so: then you would marry the Raja's daughter and we 
should all bow down to you."   
At the thought of this 
Jhalka began to skip about crying, "I will finish him 
off in no time."   
The headman heard him and took him 
at his word and wrote to the Raja that in his village 
there was a man who undertook to kill the Rakhas. 
When Jhalka heard this he hurried to the headman 
and explained that he had only been joking.   
"I cannot treat such things as a joke," answered the headman. 
"Don't you know that this is a Raja's matter: to deal 
with Rajas is the same as to deal with  bongas : you 
may make a promise to the  bongas  in jest, but they 
will not let you off it on that plea. You are much 
too fond of playing the fool." 
 
Ten or twelve days later sipahis came from the Raja 
to fetch Jhalka: he told them that he had only spoken 
in jest and did not want to go to the Raja, but they 
took him away all the same. 
 
Before he started he picked out a well-tempered 
battle axe and begged his father to propitiate the  bongas  
and pray that he might be saved from the Rakhas.  
When he was produced before the Raja, Jhalka again 
tried to explain that there had been a mistake, but the 
Raja told him that he would be taken at his word and 
must go and kill the Rakhas. Then he saw that there 
was nothing left for him but to put his trust in God: 
so he asked that he might be given two mirrors and a 
large box and when these were brought he had the 
box taken to the foot of a large banyan tree which 
grew by a ford in the river which flowed by the hill 
in which the Rakhas lived: it was at this ford that the 
Rakhas used to lie in wait for prey. 
 
Left alone there Jhalka put one of the mirrors into 
the box and then tightened his cloth and climbed the 
banyan tree with his battle axe and the other mirror. 
 
He was not at all happy as he waited for the Rahkas, 
thinking of all the people who had been killed as they 
passed along the road below the tree: however he was 
determined to outwit the Rakhas if he could. 
 
All night long he watched in vain but just at dawn the Rakhas 
appeared. At the sight of him Jhalka shook so much 
with fright that the branches of the tree swayed. The 
Rakhas smelt that there was a human being about and 
looking up into the tree saw the branches waving. 
 
"Ha," said he, "here is my breakfast." 
 
Jhalka retorted "Ha! here is another Rakhas to match those I have got." 
 
"What are you talking about?" asked the Rakhas. 
 
"I am glad to have met you at last" returned Jhalka. 
 
"Why?" asked the Rakhas, "and what are you trembling for?"
  
"I am trembling with rage: we shall now see whether 
I am to eat you or you are to eat me." 
 
"Come down and try." 
 
"No, you come up here and try." 
 
Jhalka would not leave the tree, and the Rakhas would 
not climb it: so they waited. 
 
At last the Rahhas asked, "Who are you? I have seen a thousand men like you." 
 
And Jhalka answered, "Who are you? I have seen a 
thousand like you." 
  
At this the Rakhas began to hesitate 
and wonder whether Jhalka was really his equal in strength, 
so he changed the subject and asked what the big box 
was. 
 
"That is the box into which I put Rakhases like 
you when I catch them; I have got plenty more at 
home." 
 
"How many are there in the box?" 
 
"Two or three." 
 
The Rakhas asked to see them, but Jhalka would not 
leave the tree until the Rakhas had sworn an oath to 
do him no harm; then he came down and opened the 
box and made the Rakhas look into the mirror inside 
the box; and he also held up the second mirror saying 
that there was another Rakhas. 
 
The Rakhas was fascinated at the sight of his own reflection; when he grinned or opened his mouth the reflection did the same; and 
while he was amusing himself with making different 
grimaces Jhalka suddenly cut him down with the battle axe, and he fell down dead. 
 
Then Jhalka cut off the ears and tongue and toes and hastened with them to the Raja. When it was found that the Rakhas was 
really dead the Raja assembled all his subjects and in 
their presence married Jhalka to his daughter and made 
over to him half the kingdom and gave him horses 
and elephants and half of everything in his palace.