There was once in the world a poor man who had a wife and two children, 
the elder a girl, the younger a boy. The poor man went out one day plowing 
with two wretched little oxen, his only property; his wife remained at 
home to do the cooking. The girl, being the older of the two children, was 
often sent out on short errands; upon the present occasion, too, she was 
away from the house, her mother having sent her out to borrow a peel, the 
dough for the bread being very nearly spoilt for having been kept too long 
in the trough.   
Availing herself of the girl's absence, the mother killed the poor little 
boy and hid him in a pot of stewed cabbage. By the time that the girl 
returned, her dear little brother was half stewed. When the mess was quite 
done, the woman poured it into a smaller pot, placed the small pot into a 
sling, and sent the food by her daughter to her husband who was in the 
field.   
The man liked the dish very much, and asked the girl, "What kind of meat 
is this? It is very nice."   
"I believe, dear father, mother had to kill a small lamb last night, and 
no doubt she cooked it for you," replied the girl.   
But somehow or other the girl learned the true state of things, and the 
news nearly broke her heart. She immediately went back to the field, 
gathered up the bones of her little brother, carefully wrapped them into a 
beautiful piece of new white linen and took them into the nearest forest, 
where she hid them in a hollow tree.   
Nobody can foretell what will happen, and so it came to pass that the 
bones did not remain very long in the hollow of the tree. Next spring a 
crow came and hatched them, and they became exactly such a boy as they 
were before.   
The boy would sometimes perch on the edge of the hollow, and 
sing to a beautiful tune the following words:  
 
My mother killed me,   
My father ate me,   
My sister gathered up my bones,   
She wrapped them in clean white linen,   
She placed them in a hollow tree,   
And now, behold, I'm a young crow.  
  
Upon one occasion, just as he was singing this song, a man with a cloak 
strolled by. "Go on, my son," he said, "repeat that pretty song for me! I 
live in a big village, and have traveled a good deal in my lifetime, but I 
have never heard such a pretty song."   
So the boy again commenced to sing:  
 
My mother killed me,   
My father ate me,   
My sister gathered up my bones,   
She wrapped them in clean white linen,   
She placed them in a hollow tree,   
And now, behold, I'm a young crow.  
  
The man with the cloak liked the song very much, and made the boy a 
present of his cloak.   
Then a man with a crutch-stick hobbled by. "Well, my boy," he said, "sing 
me that song again. I live in a big village, have traveled far, but have 
never heard such a pretty tune."   
And the boy again commenced to sing:  
  
My mother killed me,   
My father ate me,   
My sister gathered up my bones,   
She wrapped them in clean white linen,   
She placed them in a hollow tree,   
And now, behold, I'm a young crow.  
  
The man with the crutch-stick, too, liked the song immensely, and gave the 
boy his crutch-stick.   
The next one to pass was a miller. He also asked the boy to repeat the 
pretty tune, and as the boy complied with his request the miller presented 
him with a millstone.   
Then a sudden thought flashed across the boy's head, 
and he flew to his father's house, settled on the roof, and commenced to 
sing:  
 
My mother killed me,   
My father ate me,   
My sister gathered up my bones,   
She wrapped them in clean white linen,   
She placed them in a hollow tree,   
And now, behold, I'm a young crow.  
  
The woman was terrified, and said to her daughter, "Go and drive away that 
bird, I don't like its croaking."   
The girl went out and tried to drive away the bird, but instead of flying 
away the young crow continued to sing the same song, and threw down the 
cloak to his sister. The girl was much pleased with the present, ran into 
the house and exclaimed, "Look here what a nice present that ugly bird has 
given to me!"   
"Very nice indeed; very nice indeed. I will go out too," said her father. 
So he went out, and the bird threw down to him the crutch-stick. The old 
man was highly delighted with the gift; he was getting very weak, and the 
crutch-stick came in useful to him as a support. "Look here what a strong 
crutch-stick he has given to me ! It will be a great help to me in my old 
age."   
Then his mother jumped up from behind the oven and said, "I must go out 
too; if presents won't shower at least a few might drivel to me."   
So she went out and looked up to the roof, and the boy gave her a present 
for which she had not bargained. He threw the millstone at her, which 
killed her on the spot.   
Thus far goes our tale. Here it ends.