A soldier had long served his king. He had been valiant and brave and 
hence had received many wounds. When the war was over he had to go back 
where he came from to see if he could not beg a little bread for himself. 
Such a cripple could not work, and at that time there were no pensions. He 
went from village to village and from town to town, barely getting by.   
Once he had to pass through a great forest, for at that time there were 
many large forests. He lost his way and had to eat roots and berries until 
finally he came to a charcoal burner who took him in and friendlily gave 
him shelter. The soldier liked it there in the solitude, and he and the 
charcoal burner became right good friends. He carried wood for the 
charcoal burner and helped him with everything he had to do. In the 
twilight of evening they both complained about their sorrows and told one 
another about their past.   
One day the charcoal burner said, "Listen, friend, you are daring and 
brave. You can bring good fortune to both of us if you will only follow my 
advice. Not far from here there is a deep shaft where enormous treasures 
are buried. Are you willing to let me lower you down on a rope? Just bring 
me a bundle of candles; you can keep everything else that you bring up. 
You'll see that we shall have enough."   
The soldier immediately agreed. The following morning the charcoal burner 
took a long rope, and they both went to the shaft. One, two, three, the 
soldier had the rope around his body, and the charcoal burner lowered him 
into the hole. Down at the bottom the soldier undid the rope, struck a 
light, and found a tunnel, which he followed until he came to an iron door 
that was closed with many bars. He opened it and entered a large hall that 
was entirely illuminated by a silver chandelier. It was as bright as day. 
In the middle a large iron man was seated on a throne with three chests 
standing nearby. However, they were locked shut. Above the door was 
hanging the bundle of candles.   
First of all the soldier reached for the candles; the man saw this, but 
did not move. Then the soldier went to one of the chests, which earlier 
had not been open, and behold, it was filled with shiny silver coins. He 
quickly filled his pockets. Then the second chest sprang open, and the 
most beautiful and largest gold pieces shone forth. He threw the silver 
coins back into their chest and filled his pockets with gold. He was 
scarcely finished when the third chest opened itself, in which the most 
valuable precious stones and pearls were glistening. He set the gold aside 
and filled his pockets with pearls and diamonds. The man did not move. The 
soldier left, and the iron man did not move.   
At the shaft the soldier tied the rope around his body again, then tugged, 
and he was pulled up. Above he gave the charcoal burner the candles and 
showed him his treasures. Both were delighted, and they retired.   
The next morning the charcoal burner was dead. What was the soldier to do? 
He took his treasures, including the candles, and with his staff in hand 
went forth into the wide world. He soon came out of the forest, then made 
his way to a large city where for a long time he lived gloriously and 
happily, thinking that his riches would have no end. But they did come to 
an end, and he did not have even enough money to buy oil for his lamp. 
Then he thought of the candles that he had brought from the shaft. He took 
one of them, lit it, and in that instant the iron man stood before him, 
asking him what he should do.   
The soldier now knew how things stood, and he told him to bring him a sack 
full of gold. In an instant he had the gold, the candle went out, and the 
man had disappeared. Now he had whatever he needed, and when anything was 
gone the iron man had to come and bring something new.   
From there the soldier traveled to the city where the king lived, whom he 
had served. Here he heard that the king's daughter was wonderfully 
beautiful, but that no one was allowed to see her. Having nothing better 
to do, and already leading an elegant life, the idea came to him that he 
wanted to see the princess. Therefore one evening at ten o'clock he lit 
his candle. The iron man entered his door and asked what he wished.   
"Bring the king's daughter from the castle here to me."  
The mighty servant disappeared, and a short time later was back with the 
princess. Now the soldier made the daughter pay for what her father had 
done to him. She had to wait on him, clean his boots, sweep the floors, 
etc. In short, she had to do the duties of an ordinary maid.   
The next morning before daybreak the iron man carried her back to her 
bedroom in the castle. When she awoke she went to her father and told him 
that she did not know if it had actually happened, or if she had only 
dreamed that she had been taken to a soldier's room and been forced to 
serve him.   
Looking at his daughter, the king saw a black spot on her face. Then he 
perceived that it could have been so, and said that this evening she 
should put a piece of chalk in her pocket, and that she should draw a line 
and a cross on the front door of the house where she was taken, so that 
they would be able to find the house again. This she did. However, the 
iron man noticed, and drew a line and a cross on every front door in the 
city. The next morning she again told her father what had happened to her. 
The king ordered his people to find the house where a line and a cross had 
been drawn. They returned without success, because this sign was on every 
house.   
The king became angry and ordered his soldiers to encircle the entire 
castle so that not even a mouse could enter or leave. And he posted a 
strong guard before his daughter's bedroom door. But nonetheless that 
evening she was taken away again, for no one could see the iron man. The 
next morning she again told of her experience, and that she had received a 
rough slap from the soldier that evening. The finger marks could still be 
seen on her cheek.   
This was too much for the king, and he quietly said into his daughter's 
ear, making three crosses at the same time, that this evening she should 
put on his gold ring and put it under the soldier's bed. This she did.   
"Oh," she said the next morning. "Last night he soldier beat me terribly 
because I refused to serve him properly."   
Then the king ordered that every house in the city be searched for the 
soldier and the hidden ring. When they found the ring under a bed they 
were to bring the man who owned the bed to him. Before long the ring was 
found in the soldier's room, for he had not noticed that the princess had 
hidden it.   
Our soldier was condemned to the gallows, and his execution day was set. 
He had three days to prepare for his death. During this time he had the 
opportunity to send a messenger to his home for the candles. The messenger 
brought them, and now the iron man had to come and rescue the soldier.   
The iron man said, "Wait until you are standing on the board beneath the 
gallows. Then you can have one last wish that will have to be granted to 
you. You have your candle; light it and I'll be there. I will do what I 
have to do. No one I touch will ever again have a headache."   
And that is what happened. The soldier was happy and cheerful, which 
caused the prison guard to wonder more than a little. He ate and drank and 
slept so peacefully, as though he did not know that he was about to die. 
When he was finally standing on the board, and the hangman was about to 
tie the latest fashion in neckties on him, the soldier said, "Wait, it's 
not yet time for that. I still have a request that you will surely grant 
me."   
"Yes," said the king, who had also come with his daughter, so that she 
could see what would happen to the scoundrel who had so abused her. "Yes, 
the request shall be granted to you, if it is not an unreasonable one." 
  
"I only want to light my candle and see it burning one more time."   
"That can happen," said the king.   
So the candle was lit, and immediately the iron man was there with a thick 
cudgel. He first struck the hangman dead and then the people standing 
nearby, mowing them down viciously. The king took fright as the iron man 
moved closer and closer with his cudgel. He called out to the soldier, 
asking him to order the iron man to stop, and promising that soldier that 
he could have the princess as a wife.   
With that the soldier blew out the candle, and the iron man disappeared. 
The soldier received his wife, and now had the unlimited respect of 
everyone, even his father-in-law. And if the king ever resisted, the 
soldier had only to say, "So, should the iron man come?" Then everything 
happened that the soldier wanted.   
He later became king, and in times of war or great need he now and then 
called on the iron man, who always helped him. However, when the solder 
died, the candles disappeared as well.