A long time ago a deacon lived at Myrká, in Egafjördur. He
was in love with a girl named Gudrún, who dwelt in a farm on the
opposite side of the valley, separated from his house by a river. 
 The deacon had a horse with a gray mane, which he was always in the
habit of riding, and which he called Faxi. 
 A short time before Christmas, the deacon rode to the farm at which his
betrothed lived and invited her to join in the Christmas festivities at
Myrká, promising to fetch her on Christmas Eve. Some time before he
had started out on this ride there had been heavy snow and frost, but this
very day there came so rapid a thaw that the river over which the deacon
had safely ridden, trusting to the firmness of the ice, became impassable
during the short time he spent with his betrothed. The floods rose, and
huge masses of drift ice were whirled down the stream. 
 When the deacon had left the farm, he rode on to the river, and being
deep in thought did not perceive at first the change that had taken place.
As soon, however, as he saw in what state the stream was, he rode up the
banks until he came to a bridge of ice, on to which he spurred his horse.
But when he arrived at the middle of the bridge, it broke beneath him, and
he was drowned in the flood. 
 Next morning, a neighboring farmer saw the deacon's horse grazing in a
field, but could discover nothing of its owner, whom he had seen the day
before cross the river, but not return. He at once suspected what had
occurred, and going down to the river, found the corpse of the deacon,
which had drifted to the bank, with all the flesh torn off the back of his
head, and the bare white skull visible. So he brought the body back to
Myrká, where it was buried a week before Christmas. 
 Up to Christmas Eve the river continued so swollen that no
communication could take place between the dwellers on the opposite banks,
but that morning it subsided, and Gudrún, utterly ignorant of the
deacon's death, looked forward with joy to the festivities to which she
had been invited by him. 
 In the afternoon Gudrún began to dress in her best clothes, but
before she had quite finished, she heard a knock at the door of the farm.
One of the maidservants opened the door, but seeing nobody there, thought
it was because the night was not sufficiently light, for the moon was
hidden for the time by clouds. So saying, "Wait there till I bring a
light," went back into the house. But she had no sooner shut the outer
door behind her, than the knock was repeated, and Gudrún cried out
from her room, "It is someone waiting for me." 
 As she had by this time finished dressing, she slipped only one sleeve
of her winter cloak on, and threw the rest over her shoulders hurriedly.
When she opened the door, she saw the well known Faxi standing outside,
and by him a man whom she knew to be the deacon. Without a word he placed
Gudrún on the horse, and mounted in front of her himself, and off
they rode. 
 When they came to the river it was frozen over, all except the current
in the middle, which the frost had not yet hardened. The horse walked onto
the ice, and leaped over the black and rapid stream which flowed in the
middle. At the same moment the head of the deacon nodded forward, so that
his hat fell over his eyes, and Gudrún saw the large patch of bare
skull gleam white in the midst of his hair. Directly afterwards, a cloud
moved from before the moon, and the deacon said,
 
 
The moon glides, 
Death rides, 
Seest thou not the white place 
In the back of my head 
Garún, Garún? 
 
 
 
 Not a word more was spoken till they came to Myrká, where they
dismounted. Then the man said,
 
 
Wait here for me, Garún, Garún, 
While I am taking Faxi, Faxi, 
Outside the hedges, the hedges! 
 
 
 
 When he had gone, Gudrún saw near her in the churchyard, where
she was standing, an open grave, and half sick with horror, ran to the
church porch, and seizing the rope, tolled the bells with all her
strength. But as she began to ring them, she felt someone grasp her and
pull so fiercely at her cloak that it was torn off her, leaving only the
one sleeve into which she had thrust her arm before starting from home.
Then turning round, she saw the deacon jump headlong into the yawning
grave, with the tattered cloak in his hand, and the heaps of earth on both
sides fall in over him, and close the grave up to the brink. 
 Gudrún knew now that it was the deacon's ghost with whom she had
had to do, and continued ringing the bells till she roused all the farm
servants at Myrká. 
 That same night, after Gudrún had got shelter at Myrká
and was in bed, the deacon came again from his grave and endeavored to
drag her away, so that no one could sleep for the noise of their
struggle. 
 This was repeated every night for a fortnight, and Gudrún could
never be left alone for a single instant, lest the goblin deacon should
get the better of her. From time to time, also, a neighboring priest came
and sat on the edge of the bed, reading the Psalms of David to protect her
against this ghostly persecution. 
 But nothing availed, till they sent for a man from the north country,
skilled in witchcraft, who dug up a large stone from the field, and placed
it in the middle of the guest room at Myrká. When the deacon rose
that night from his grave and came into the house to torment
Gudrún, this man seized him, and by uttering potent spells over
him, forced him beneath the stone, and exorcised the passionate demon that
possessed him, so that there he lies in peace to this day.