In the village church at Groß-Redensleben, one hour from Seehausen,
immediately inside the entrance, on the left side of the door hanging on a
stone
pillar there is a wooden tablet, painted black, and with the following
inscription: 
 
 
Behold, thou wicked child 
What is here displayed: 
A hand that does not decay, 
For he, whose hand it was, 
Was a wayward child, 
Such as exist even today. 
This son struck his father, 
And he has as a reward, 
That his hand is hanging here. 
Guard thyself from such shame. 
 
On the tablet's edge, encircling the inscription, are the words: 
 
Thou shalt honor thy father and thy mother, that thy days may be long upon
the
land which the Lord thy God giveth thee.
 
 
Beneath the tablet there is an iron chain, about a half yard long, from
which is
hanging a human hand, which was cut off at its root.  Its color is ashen
gray;
its skin and flesh are totally dry.  The following legend is told about
it: 
Before the Thirty Years' War there lived in Groß-Rebensleben a pious
man
who had a very wayward son.  This son not only ridiculed his father's
admonitions, but his belligerence went so far that he abused his own
father. 
Once he even lifted his hand against him as the father was praying to God
for
his repentance. 
And it came to pass that the wayward son suddenly fell dead to the earth,
as a
visible sign that Heaven would not allow his wickedness to go
unpunished. 
He was buried the next day, and then an even greater miracle occurred.
Suddenly
a hand appeared from the grave, the same hand with which he had struck his
father, as if it could find no rest beneath the earth. 
All who saw this happen fled in terror, and no one dared return to the
churchyard, for the hand did not return to beneath the earth.  It was a
gruesome
sight, the way it extended from the grave, stiff, pale, cold, and silent,
but still an articulate witness as to how the Lord punishes sin. 
At last the authorities ordered that the hand be whipped with switches, in
the
belief that such a punishment would suffice and would lead to redemption.
The order was carried out, and the hand bled until the earth turned red,
but it
would not return to the grave. 
Then they had it chopped off and hung it in the church with the tablet
described above so that it could serve as a lesson for future
generations.