A long time ago, in the County Mayo, there lived a rich man of the name of McAndrew. He owned cows and horses without number, not to mention ducks and geese and pigs; and his land extended as far as the eye could reach on the four sides of you.  
McAndrew was a lucky man, the neighbours all said; but as for himself, when he looked on his seven big sons growing up like weeds and with scarcely any more sense, he felt sore enough, for of all the stupid omadhauns, the seven McAndrew brothers were the stupidest.  
. . . 
The seven young McAndrews were as happy as could be until the fine old father fell sick and died.  
The eldest son came in for all the father had, so he felt like a lord. To see him strut and swagger was a sight to make a grum growdy laugh.  
One day, to show how fine he could be, he dressed in his best, and with a purse filled with gold pieces started off for the market town.  
When he got there, in he walked to a public-house, and called for the best of everything, and to make a fine fellow of himself he tripled the price of everything to the landlord. As soon as he got through his eye suddenly caught sight of a little keg, all gilded over to look like gold, that hung outside the door for a sign. Con had never heeded it before, and he asked the landlord what it was.  
Now the landlord, like many another, had it in mind that he might as well get all he could out of a McAndrew, and he answered quickly: "You stupid omadhaun, don't you know what that is? It's a mare's egg."  
"And will a foal come out of it?"  
"Of course; what a question to ask a dacent man!"  
"I niver saw one before," said the amazed McAndrew.  
"Well, ye see one now, Con, and take a good look at it."  
"Will ye sell it?"  
"Och, Con McAndrew, do ye think I want to sell that fine egg afther kaping it so long hung up there before the sun when it is ready to hatch out a foal that will be worth twenty good guineas to me?"  
"I'll give ye twenty guineas for it," answered Con.  
"Thin it's a bargain," said the landlord; and he took down the keg and handed it to Con, who handed out the twenty guineas, all the money he had.  
"Be careful of it, and carry it as aisy as ye can, and when ye get home hang it up in the sun."  
Con promised, and set off home with his prize.  
Near the rise of a hill he met his brothers.  
"What have ye, Con?"  
"The most wonderful thing in the world -- a mare's egg."  
"Faith, what is it like?" asked Pat, taking it from Con.  
"Go aisy, can't ye? It's very careful ye have to be."  
But the brothers took no heed to Con, and before one could say, "whist," away rolled the keg down the hill, while all seven ran after it; but before any one could catch it, it rolled into a clump of bushes, and in an instant out hopped a hare.  
"Bedad, there's a foal," cried Con, and all seven gave chase; but there was no use trying to catch a hare.  
"That's the foinest foal that ever was, if he was five year old the devil himself could not catch him," Con said; and with that the seven omadhauns gave up the chase and went quietly home.