The following story was told to me by Joe Moore, who lives in the parish 
of Patrick, some mile from Close-ny-Lheiy.  I wrote the story down from 
notes made at the time,--the dialogue being taken down, word for word, as 
it fell from his lips.  He told me that this father got the story from 
old Hom Bridson himself, ninety years ago and more; he never repeated the 
story while any of the Colloo family lived, but the last descendant died 
many years ago, and the old farmhouse is in ruins.  It was a curious 
coincidence that, in the week following that in which I had the story 
from Joe Moore, I received it also from Logan, Utah, from Miss Quirk, who 
had it from an old Manxman who had lived there for fifty years and had 
emigrated from Glen Meay.

  
There was one time a woman named Colloo in Close-ny-Lheiy, near Glen 
Meay, and she had a child that had fallen sick in a strange way.  Nothing 
seemed wrong with him yet crosser and crosser he grew, nying-nyanging 
night and day.  The woman was in great distress.  Charms had failed, and 
she didn't know rightly what to do.
  
It seems that, about a fortnight after birth, the child, as fine a child 
for his age as you would see in a day's walk, was left asleep while the 
mother went to the well for water.  Now Herself forgot to put the tongs 
on the cradle, and, when she came back, the child was crying pitiful, and 
no quatin' for him.  And from that very hour the flesh seemed to melt off 
his bones, till he became as ugly and as wizened a child as you would see 
between the Point of Ayre and the Calf.  He was that way, his whining 
howl filling the house, for four years, lying in the cradle without a 
motion on him to put his feet under him.  Not a day's res' nor a night's 
sleep was there at the woman these four years with him.  She was fair 
scourged with him, until there came a fine day in the spring that Hom beg 
Bridson, the tailor, was in the house sewing.  Hom is dead now, but 
there's many alive as remember him.  He was wise tremenjus, for he was 
going from house to house sewing, and gathering wisdom as he was going.
  
Well, before that day the tailor was seeing lots of wickedness at the 
child.  When the woman would be out feeding the pigs and sarvin' the 
craythurs, he would be hoisting his head up out of the cradle and making 
faces at the tailor, winking, and slicking, and shaking his head, and 
saying "What a lad I am!"
  
That day the woman wanted to go to the shop in Glen Meay to sell some 
eggs that she had, and says she to the tailor: "Hom man, keep your eye on 
the chile that the bogh [poor dear] won't fall out of the cradle and hurt 
himself while I slip down to the shop."  When she was gone the tailor 
began to whistle aisy to himsef, as he stitched, the tune on a lil hymn.
  
"Drop that, Hom beg," said a lil harsh voice.
  
The tailor, scandalized, looked round to see if it was the child that had 
spoken, and it was.
  
"Whush, whush, now, lie quate," says the tailor, rocking the cradle with 
his foot, and as he rocked he whistled the hymn tune louder.
  
"Drop that, Hom beg, I tell ye, an' give us something light an' handy," 
says the lil fella back to him, middling sharp.
  
"Aw, anything at all to plaze thee," says the tailor, whistling a jig.
  
"Hom," says my lad, "can thou dance anything to that?"
  
"I can," says the tailor, "can thou?"
  
"I can that," says my lad, "would thou like to see me dance?"
  
"I would, says the tailor.
  
"Take that oul' fiddle down then, Hom man," he said, "and put 'Tune y 
wheeyl vooar' [Tune of the big wheel] on it."
  
"Aw, I'll do that for thee, an' welcome," says the tailor.
  
The fiddle quits its hook on the wall, and the tailor tunes up.
  
"Hom," says the lil fella, "before thou begin to play, clear the kitchen 
for me,--cheers an' stools, everything away.  Make a place for me to step 
out to the music, man."
  
"Aw, I'll do that for thee, too," says the tailor.
  
He cleared the kitchen floor, and then he struck up "Tune y wheeyl vooar."
  
In a crack the lil fella bounced from his cradle onto the floor with a 
"Chu!" and began flying round the kitchen.  "Go it Hom,--face your 
partner,--heel and toe does it. Well done, Hom,--jog your elbow, man."
  
Hom plays faster and faster, till me lad was jumping as high as the table.
  
With a "Chu!" up goes his foot on top of the dresser, and "Chu!" then on 
top of the chimlee piece, and "Chu!" bang against the partition, then he 
was half flying, half footing it round the kitchen, turning and going 
round that quick that it put a reel in Hom's head to be looking at him.  
Then he was whirling everything round for a clear space, even Hom 
himself, who by degrees gets up on the table in the corner and plays 
wilder and wilder, as the whirling jig grew madder and madder.
  
"M' Yee!" says the tailor, throwing down the fiddle, "I mus' run, thou're 
not the chile that was in the cradle.  Are thou?"
  
"Houl' man! thou're right enough," says the lil fella.  "Strike up for 
me, make has'e, make has'e man,--more power to you elbow."
  
"Whush!" said the tailor, "here's Herself coming."
  
The dancing ceased.  The child gave a hop, skip, and jump into the cradle.
  
"Get on with thee sewing, Hom; don't say a word," says the lil fella, 
covering himself up in the clothes till nothing was left of him to be 
seen except his eyes which keeked out like a ferret's.
  
When Herself came in the house, the tailor, all of a tremble, was sitting 
cross-legged on the round table and his specs on his nose and letting on 
that he was busy sewing; the child in the cradle was shouting and 
sweeling [squealing] as usual.  "What in all the earthly worl'...!  But 
it's quare stitching, altogether, there's been goin' on her, an' me out.  
An' how thou can see thee needle in that dark corner, Hom Bridson, let 
alone sew, it beats me," says she, siding the place.  "Well, well then, 
well, well, on the boghee veg [poor little thing].  Did he think Mammy 
had gone an' lef' him then, the chree [heart]?  Mammy is goin' to feed 
him, though."
  
The tailor had been thinking mighty with himself what he ought to do, so 
he says,-- "Look here, woman, give him nothing at all, but go out and get 
a creelful of good turf."
  
She brought in the turf, and throws a big bart [bundle] of fern on it.  
The tailor give a leap off the table down to the floor, and it wasn't 
long till he had the fine fire.
  
"Thou'll have the house put on fire for me, Hom," says Herself.
  
"No fear, but I'll fire some of them," says the tailor.
  
The child, with his two eyes going out of his head watching to see what 
the tailor would do then, was slowly turning his whining howl into a kind 
of call,--to his own sort to come and fetch him, as like.
  
"I'll send thee home," says the tailor, drawing near the cradle, and he 
stretches out his two hands to take the child and put him on the big red 
turf fire.  Before he was able to lay a hand on him, the lil fella leaped 
out of the cradle and took for the door.  "The back of me han' an the 
sole of me fut to you!" says he, "if I would only ha' had only another 
night I could have showed thee a trick or two more than that yet."
  
Then the door flew open with a bang, as though someone had thrown it 
open, and he took off with himself like a shot.  A hullabaloo of laughing 
and making fun was heard outside, and the noise of many running little 
feet.  
 
Out on the door of the house goes Herself, she saw no one, but she caught 
sight of a flock of low-lying clouds shaped like gulls chasing each other 
away up Glen Rushen, and then comes to her ears, as if afar off from the 
clouds, sharp whistles and wicked little laughs as if making mock of 
her.  Then, as she was turning round and searching, she suddenly sees her 
own sweet rosy smiling child with thumb in mouth lying on the bink [stone 
bench] right before her. And she took all the joy in the worl' of the 
child that he was home again safe and sound.