There was once a little blackbird (the  litia ) who was the proud
owner of three  kauries , or shells. This bird used to come to a king
and say, "O king, I have three  kauries , O king." 
 The king was so much annoyed by the continual chirping of the little
bird that he ordered his servants to take the three  kauries  from
the bird and to drive it away.  
 But the bird would not leave the king, and so it began to say, "My
wealth has made you rich, O king. My wealth has made you rich, O king."
 
 The king then ordered that the three  kauries  should be returned
to the little blackbird. The bird then took the three kauries, and went to
the seller of parched gram (a coarse pea), and with the three
 kauries  she bought three grains of parched gram. Taking these the
bird flew off and sat on a new cart which a carpenter was making, and
there she started eating the gram. Having eaten two grains, she was about
to eat the third, when it dropped from her beak and fell into a joint of
the new cart, where she could not reach it.  
 In great distress she appealed to the carpenter to take to pieces his
cart that she might get at the grain she had lost. 
 "You silly little thing," said the carpenter. "Do you suppose I am
going to take to pieces my new cart to get at a single grain which you
have dropped into the joint of the woodwork?" 
 The little blackbird then went to the king, and said to him that she
had lost her grain, and asked him to order the carpenter to open his cart
that she might get at her grain. 
 "You silly little thing," said the king. "Do you suppose I am going to
order the carpenter to open his cart that you may get one small
grain?" 
 The little blackbird then went to the queen, and begged of her to
persuade the king to order the carpenter to open the cart to let her get
at the grain. But the queen also said, "Get away, you silly thing." 
 Then the little blackbird went to a deer and said, "Come, O deer, graze
in the queen's garden, for she will not persuade the king, and the king
will not order the carpenter, and the carpenter will not open the cart,
and I cannot get at my grain." 
 But the deer would give to heed to the bird, and called her "You silly
little thing." 
 Then said the bird, "I will go to the  lathi  (the strong, stout
stick)." 
 To the  lathi  she went and said, "Come, stout stick, strike the
deer, for the deer will not graze in the queen's garden, and the queen
will not persuade the king, and the king will not command the carpenter,
and the carpenter will not open his cart, and I cannot get at my
grain." 
 But the stick also would give no ear to the cry of the little
blackbird, so she went at once to the fire; and she begged the fire to
burn the stick, for the deer would not eat the queen's garden, and the
queen would not persuade the king, the king would not command the
carpenter, the carpenter would not break up his cart, and she could not
get at her grain. 
 But the fire also made light of the little bird's prayer. So she went
next to the lake, and implored the lake to quench the fire, for the fire
would not burn the stick, and the stick would not strike the deer, and the
deer would not destroy the garden, and the queen would not persuade the
king, and the king refused to command the carpenter, who also refused to
open his cart, so that the bird could not get at her grain. 
 But the lake refused to help the bird. 
 She then went to a place where there were thousands of rats, and to the
rats she presented her prayer that they should come and fill the lake with
their diggings, for the lake would not quench the fire, etc., etc.  
 But the rats also gave no attention to the wishes of the small
blackbird.  
 Then the bird went to a cat, and of the cat she implored that she
should attack the rats, for the rats would not fill in the lake, and the
lake would not quench the fire, etc., and she could not get at her grain.
 
 But the cat also was deaf to the prayers of the small blackbird.  
 Then she went to the elephant, and of the elephant she implored that he
would crush the cat, for the cat would not kill the rats, etc., etc., and
she could not get at her grain.  
 But the elephant treated her as did all the others.  
 Then she went to an ant, and begged the wee ant to crawl into the
elephant's ear, for the elephant would not crush the cat, etc., etc. and
she could not get at her grain.  
 But the ant also gave no heed to her prayer.  
 Then at last she came to the crow, the most greedy of all creatures,
and of the crow she begged that he should eat the ant.  
 From sheer greed the crow consented to eat the ant; but the ant, seeing
the crow about to eat it, went to crawl into the ear of the elephant, and
the elephant, fearing the harm which the ant could do him, went to crush
the cat; but the cat slipped away, and was about the destroy the rats, and
they at once began to fill in the lake; and the lake, becoming alarmed,
was about to quench the fire, when the fire began to burn the stick, and
the stick began to beat the deer, so that the deer was about to destroy
the queen's garden, when the queen began to persuade the king, and the
king commanded the carpenter, and the carpenter opened his new cart; and
the little blackbird found her grain, and happily taking it up she flew
away, and quietly enjoyed her repast, and lived very happily ever after.