On the shore of Smerwick harbor, one fine summer's morning, just at 
daybreak, stood Dick Fitzgerald "shoghing the dudeen," which may be 
translated, smoking his pipe. The sun was gradually rising behind the 
lofty Brandon, the dark sea was getting green in the light, and the mists 
clearing away out of the valleys went rolling and curling like the smoke 
from the corner of Dick's mouth.  
"'Tis just the pattern of a pretty morning," said Dick, taking the pipe 
from between his lips, and looking towards the distant ocean, which lay as 
still and tranquil as a tomb of polished marble. "Well, to be sure," 
continued he, after a pause, "'tis mighty lonesome to be talking to one's 
self by way of company, and not to have another soul to answer one -- 
nothing but the child of one's own voice, the echo! I know this, that if I 
had the luck, or maybe the misfortune," said Dick, with a melancholy 
smile, "to have the woman, it would not be this way with me! And what in 
the wide world is a man without a wife? He's no more, surely, than a 
bottle without a drop of drink in it, or dancing without music, or the 
left leg of a scissors, or a fishing line without a hook, or any other 
matter that is no ways complete. Is it not so?" said Dick Fitzgerald, 
casting his eyes towards a rock upon the strand, which, though it could 
not speak, stood up as firm and looked as bold as ever Kerry witness did. 
 
But what was his astonishment at beholding, just at the foot of that rock, 
a beautiful young creature combing her hair, which was of a sea-green 
color; and now the salt water shining on it, appeared, in the morning 
light, like melted butter upon cabbage.  
Dick guessed at once that she was a merrow, although he had never seen one 
before, for he spied the  cohuleen druith , or little enchanted cap, 
which the sea people use for diving down into the ocean, lying upon the 
strand near her; and he had heard that if once he could possess himself of 
the cap, she would lose the power of going away into the water; so he 
seized it with all speed, and she, hearing the noise, turned her head 
about as natural as any Christian.  
When the merrow saw that her little diving cap was gone, the salt tears -- 
doubly salt, no doubt, from her -- came trickling down her cheeks, and she 
began a low mournful cry with just the tender voice of a newborn infant. 
Dick, although he knew well enough what she was crying for, determined to 
keep the  cohuleen druith , let her cry never so much, to see what 
luck would come out of it. Yet he could not help pitying her; and when the 
dumb thing looked up in his face, and her cheeks all moist with tears, 
'twas enough to make anyone feel, let alone Dick, who had ever and always, 
like most of his countrymen, a mighty tender heart of his own.  
"Don't cry, my darling," said Dick Fitzgerald; but the merrow, like any 
bold child, only cried the more for that.  
Dick sat himself down by her side, and took hold of her hand, by way of 
comforting her. 'Twas in no particular an ugly hand, only there was a 
small web between the fingers, as there is in a duck's foot; but 'twas as 
thin and as white as the skin between egg and shell.  
"What's your name, my darling?" says Dick, thinking to make her conversant 
with him; but he got no answer; and he was certain sure now, either that 
she could not speak, or did not understand him. He therefore squeezed her 
hand in his, as the only way he had of talking to her. It's the universal 
language; and there's not a woman in the world, be she fish or lady, that 
does not understand it.  
The merrow did not seem much displeased at this mode of conversation; and, 
making an end of her whining all at once, "Man," says she, looking up in 
Dick Fitzgerald's face, "Man, will you eat me?"  
"By all the red petticoats and check aprons between Dingle and Tralee," 
cried Dick, jumping up in amazement, "I'd as soon eat myself, my jewel! Is 
it I eat you, my pet? Now, 'twas some ugly ill-looking thief of a fish put 
that notion into your own pretty head, with the nice green hair down upon 
it, that is so cleanly combed out this morning!"  
"Man," said the merrow, "what will you do with me, if you won't eat me?" 
 
Dick's thoughts were running on a wife. He saw, at the first glimpse, that 
she was handsome; but since she spoke, and spoke too like any real woman, 
he was fairly in love with her. 'Twas the neat way she called him "man" 
that settled the matter entirely.  
"Fish," says Dick, trying to speak to her after her own short fashion. 
"Fish," says he, "here's my word, fresh and fasting, for you this blessed 
morning, that I'll make you Mistress Fitzgerald before all the world, and 
that's what I'll do."  
"Never say the word twice." says she. "I'm ready and willing to be yours, 
Mister Fitzgerald; but stop, if you please, 'till I twist up my hair."  
It was some time before she had settled it entirely to her liking, for she 
guessed, I suppose, that she was going among strangers, where she would be 
looked at. When that was done, the merrow put the comb in her pocket, and 
then bent down her head and whispered some words to the water that was 
close to the foot of the rock.  
Dick saw the murmur of the words upon the top of the sea, going out 
towards the wide ocean, just like a breath of wind rippling along, and, 
says he, in the greatest wonder, "Is it speaking you are, my darling, to 
the saltwater?"  
"It's nothing else," says she, quite carelessly, "I'm just sending word 
home to my father, not to be waiting breakfast for me, just to keep him 
from being uneasy in his mind."  
"And who's your father, my duck?" says Dick.  
"What!" said the merrow, "Did you never hear of my father? He's the king 
of the waves, to be sure!"  
"And yourself, then, is a real king's daughter?" said Dick, opening his 
two eyes to take a full and true survey of his wife that was to be. "Oh, 
I'm nothing else but a made man with you, and a king your father. To be 
sure he has all the money that's down in the bottom of the sea!"  
"Money," repeated the merrow, "what's money?"  
"'Tis no bad thing to have when one wants it," replied Dick; "and maybe 
now the fishes have the understanding to bring up whatever you bid them?" 
 
"Oh! yes," said the merrow, "they bring me what I want."  
"To speak the truth," said Dick, "'tis a straw bed I have at home before 
you, and that, I'm thinking, is no ways fitting for a king's daughter; so 
if 'twould not be displeasing to you, just to mention, a nice featherbed, 
with a pair of new blankets -- but what am I talking about? Maybe you have 
not such things as beds down under the water?"  
"By all means," said she, "Mr. Fitzgerald -- plenty of beds at your 
service. I've fourteen oyster beds of my own, not to mention one just 
planting for the rearing of young ones."  
"You have," says Dick, scratching his head and looking a little puzzled. 
"'Tis a featherbed I was speaking of, but clearly, yours is the very cut 
of a decent plan, to have bed and supper so handy to each other, that a 
person, when they'd have the one, need never ask for the other."  
However, bed or no bed, money or no money, Dick Fitzgerald determined to 
marry the merrow, and the merrow had given her consent. Away they went, 
therefore, across the strand, from Gollerus to Ballinrunnig, where Father 
Fitzgibbon happened to be that morning.  
"There are two words to this bargain, Dick Fitzgerald," said his 
Reverence, looking mighty glum. "And is it a fishy woman you'd marry? The 
Lord preserve us! Send the scaly creature home to her own people, that's 
my advice to you, wherever she came from."  
Dick had the  cohuleen druith   in his hand, and was about to give it 
back to the merrow, who looked covetously at it, but he thought for a 
moment, and then, says he, "Please your Reverence, she's a king's 
daughter."  
"If she was the daughter of fifty kings," said Father Fitzgibbon, "I tell 
you, you can't marry her, she being a fish."  
"Please your Reverence," said Dick again, in an undertone, "she is as mild 
and as beautiful as the moon."  
"If she was as mild and as beautiful as the sun, moon, and stars, all put 
together, I tell you, Dick Fitzgerald," said the priest, stamping his 
right foot, "you can't marry her, she being a fish!"  
"But she has all the gold that's down in the sea only for the asking, and 
I'm a made man if I marry her; and," said Dick, looking up slyly, "I can 
make it worth any one's while to do the job."  
"Oh! That alters the case entirely," replied the priest. "Why there's some 
reason now in what you say. Why didn't you tell me this before? Marry her 
by all means, if she was ten times a fish. Money, you know, is not to be 
refused in these bad times, and I may as well have the hansel of it as 
another, that maybe would not take half the pains in counseling you as I 
have done."  
So Father Fitzgibbon married Dick Fitzgerald to the merrow, and like any 
loving couple, they returned to Gollerus well pleased with each other. 
Everything prospered with Dick. He was at the sunny side of the world; the 
merrow made the best of wives, and they lived together in the greatest 
contentment.  
It was wonderful to see, considering where she had been brought up, how 
she would busy herself about the house, and how well she nursed the 
children; for, at the end of three years, there were as many young 
Fitzgeralds -- two boys and a girl.  
In short, Dick was a happy man, and so he might have continued to the end 
of his days, if he had only the sense to take proper care of what he had 
got. Many another man, however, beside Dick, has not had wit enough to do 
that.  
One day when Dick was obliged to go to Tralee, he left the wife minding 
the children at home after him, and thinking she had plenty to do without 
disturbing his fishing tackle.  
Dick was no sooner gone than Mrs. Fitzgerald set about cleaning up the 
house, and chancing to pull down a fishing net, what should she find 
behind it in a hole in the wall but her own  cohuleen druith.  
She took it out and looked at it, and then she thought of her father the 
king, and her mother the queen, and her brothers and sisters, and she felt 
a longing to go back to them.  
She sat down on a little stool and thought over the happy days she had 
spent under the sea; then she looked at her children, and thought on the 
love and affection of poor Dick, and how it would break his heart to lose 
her. "But," says she, "he won't lose me entirely, for I'll come back to 
him again, and who can blame me for going to see my father and my mother 
after being so long away from them?"  
She got up and went towards the door, but came back again to look once 
more at the child that was sleeping in the cradle. She kissed it gently, 
and as she kissed it a tear trembled for an instant in her eye and then 
fell on its rosy cheek. She wiped away the tear, and turning to the eldest 
little girl, told her to take good care of her brothers, and to be a good 
child herself until she came back.  
The merrow then went down to the strand. The sea was lying calm and 
smooth, just heaving and glittering in the sun, and she thought she heard 
a faint sweet singing, inviting her to come down. All her old ideas and 
feelings came flooding over her mind. Dick and her children were at the 
instant forgotten, and placing the  cohuleen druith   on her head, 
she plunged in.  
Dick came home in the evening, and missing his wife, he asked Kathelin, 
his little girl, what had become of her mother, but she could not tell 
him. He then enquired of the neighbors, and he learned that she was seen 
going towards the strand with a strange looking thing like a cocked hat in 
her hand. He returned to his cabin to search for the cohuleen druith. It 
was gone, and the truth now flashed upon him.  
Year after year did Dick Fitzgerald wait, expecting the return of his 
wife, but he never saw her more. Dick never married again, always thinking 
that the merrow would sooner or later return to him, and nothing could 
ever persuade him but that her father the king kept her below by main 
force; "for," said Dick, "she surely would not of herself give up her 
husband and her children."  
While she was with him, she was so good a wife in every respect, that to 
this day she is spoken of in the tradition of the country as the pattern 
for one, under the name of the Lady of Gollerus.