Once upon a time there lived a mother with three daughters, whose duty it 
was to guard the cabbage patch in front of the cottage in which they 
lived. One day they were all sitting in the sun, spinning, when they saw a 
bull in the cabbage-patch. "Take your distaff and run, child, run!" said 
the mother to the eldest daughter. So the girl took her distaff and ran. 
The bull ran and she ran, and she ran and the bull ran, until they came to 
a great house standing on the edge of a wood.    
There the bull gave her a large bunch of keys, and told her that she could 
go anywhere in the house she liked except one room. He showed her the key 
to this room, and told her that she must not unlock the door to which it 
belonged. Then the bull went away and left her. The girl took the keys and 
roamed from one beautiful room to another, until she had seen all except 
the forbidden room. This she wanted to see more than she had any of the 
others. At last her curiosity became so great that she opened the door and 
went inside. What was her horror to discover that the room was full of 
headless bodies hung on all sides. Quickly she locked the door and ran 
downstairs. But she had some blood on the key, on her hand, and on her 
shoes.    
As she was trying the best she knew how to get the blood off, along came a 
big black cat, which said to her, "Mew, mew, mew! Give me a dish of bread 
and milk, and I will tell you how to get the blood off your shoes."    
"Go away, you old black thing! I am not going to bother with you."    
So the cat went away, and pretty soon the bull came. "Let me see your 
keys!" said he. "How came the blood on this one?" Then he asked to see her 
hands and her shoes. When he saw blood on them too, he knew that she had 
disobeyed him; so, as he had done with all the others who had disobeyed 
him, he cut her head off and hung her body up with the others in the 
forbidden room.    
The next day, when the mother and her two remaining daughters again sat 
spinning in the sun, they again saw the bull in the cabbage-patch. The 
mother sent the second daughter just as she had sent the first, and 
exactly the same things happened to her.    
The third day the mother and the youngest daughter sat spinning in the 
sun, when the mother looked up and saw the bull a third time in the 
cabbage patch. "Take your distaff and run, child, run!" cried the mother.  
  
So the youngest daughter ran, and the bull ran. The bull ran and she ran 
until they came to the great house on the edge of the wood. There the bull 
gave her a bunch of keys, and told her that she might open every door in 
the house except the one whose key he showed her. Then the bull went away. 
The youngest daughter did just as her sisters had done, and went into all 
the rooms except the forbidden one. She kept wondering what could be in 
there, until her curiosity became so great that she unlocked the door and 
went in. She, too, was so horrified that she quickly shut the door and ran 
downstairs, but with the tell-tale blood on the key, on her hand, and on 
her shoes.    
To her came the big black cat, who said, "Mew, mew, mew! Give me a dish of 
bread and milk, and I will tell you how to get the blood off your shoes."  
  
Instead of telling the cat to go away, as her sisters had done, she went 
and got some bread and milk for him. When the cat had finished eating, he 
said, "If you will go into the attic, you will find there a sickle. Take 
it, rub it on the key, on your hand, and on your shoes, while you say, 
'Blood, be gone! Blood, be gone!"'    
The girl went to the attic, found the sickle, and did with it as the cat 
had told her to do, saying, "Blood, be gone! blood, be gone!" Even as she 
spoke the last word, the blood-stains disappeared.    
Then the girl went downstairs, where she found the bull waiting for her. 
"Let me see your keys," he said, "and your hands and your shoes!"    
When he saw that she had no blood-stains upon her, he suddenly changed 
from a bull into a beautiful prince. "I was bewitched," he said, "by a 
girl who loved me, but whom I wouldn't marry because I didn't love her. I 
killed many a girl when I was a bull; but now we will have the bodies 
taken care of, and then we will be married."    
So they buried the bodies, and then were married and lived happily ever 
after.