In a certain village there was a girl who was lazy and slothful, hated
working, but would gossip and chatter away like anything!  Well, she took
it into her head to invite the other girls to a spinning party.  For in
the villages, as every one knows, it is the lazybones who gives the
spinning feast, and the sweet-toothed are those who go to it. 
 Well, on the appointed night she got her spinners together.  They span
for her, and she fed them and feasted them.  Among other things they
chatted about was this -- which of them all was the boldest? 
 Says the lazybones, "I'm not afraid of anything!" 
 "Well then," say the spinners, "if you're not afraid, go past the
graveyard to the church, take down the holy picture from the door, and
bring it here." 
 "Good, I'll bring it; only each of you must spin me a
distaff-full." 
 That was just her sort of notion: to do nothing herself, but to get
others to do it for her.  Well, she went, took down the picture, and
brought it home with her.  Her friends all saw that sure enough it was the
picture from the church.  But the picture had to be taken back again, and
it was now the midnight hour.  Who was to take it?  At length the
lazybones said, "You girls go on spinning.  I'll take it back myself.  I'm
not afraid of anything!" 
 So she went and put the picture back in its place.  As she was passing
the graveyard on her return, she saw a corpse in a white shroud, seated on
a tomb.  It was a moonlight night; everything was visible.  She went up to
the corpse, and drew away its shroud from it.  The corpse held its peace,
not uttering a word; no doubt the time for it to speak had not come yet.
Well, she took the shroud and went home. 
 "There!" says she, "I've taken back the picture and put it in its
place; and, what's more, here's a shroud I took away from a corpse."  Some
of the girls were horrified; others didn't believe what she said, and
laughed at her. 
 But after they had supped and lain down to sleep, all of a sudden the
corpse tapped at the window and said, "Give me my shroud!  Give me my
shroud!" 
 The girls were so frightened they didn't know whether they were alive
or dead.  But the lazybones took the shroud, went to the window, opened
it, and said, "There, take it." 
 "No," replied the corpse, "restore it to the place you took it from."
Just then the cocks suddenly began to crow.  The corpse disappeared. 
 Next night, when the spinners had all gone home to their own houses, at
the very same hour as before, the corpse came, tapped at the window, and
cried, "Give me my shroud!" 
 Well, the girl's father and mother opened the window and offered him
his shroud.  "No," says he, "let her take it back to the place she took it
from." 
 "Really now, how could one go to a graveyard with a corpse?  What a
horrible idea!" she replied.  Just then the cocks crew.  The corpse
disappeared. 
 Next day the girl's father and mother sent for the priest, told him the
whole story, and entreated him to help them in their trouble.  "Couldn't a
service be performed?" they said. 
 The priest reflected awhile; then he replied, "Please tell her to come
to church tomorrow." 
 Next day the lazybones went to church.  The service began, numbers of
people came to it.  But just as they were going to sing the cherubim song,
there suddenly arose, goodness knows whence, so terrible a whirlwind that
all the congregation fell flat on their faces.  And it caught up that
girl, and then flung her down on the ground.  The girl disappeared from
sight; nothing was left of her but her back hair.