Once upon a time there was a man up in Finnmark who had caught a large
white bear, which he was going to take to the King of Denmark. It so
happened that he came to the Dovrefjell on Christmas Eve. He went to a
cottage where a man lived whose name was Halvor, and he asked the man for
lodging for himself and his white bear. 
 "God bless us!" said the man, "but we can't give anyone lodging just
now, for every Christmas Eve the house is so full of trolls that we are
forced to move out, and we'll have no shelter over our own heads, to say
nothing of providing for anyone else." 
 "Oh?" said the man, "If that's all, you can very well let me use your
house. My bear can sleep under the stove here, and I can sleep in the
storeroom." 
 Well, he begged so hard, that at last he got permission to stay there.
The people of the house moved out, but before they went, everything was
made ready for the trolls. The table was set with cream porridge and fish
and sausages and everything else that was good, just as for any other
grand feast. 
 When everything was ready, in came the trolls. Some were large, and
some were small. Some had long tails, and some had no tails at all. And
some had long, long noses. They ate and drank and tasted everything.  
 Then one of the troll youngsters saw the white bear lying under the
stove, so he took a piece of sausage, stuck it onto a fork, and went and
poked it against the white bear's nose, burning it.  Then he shrieked,
"Kitty, do you want some sausage?" 
 The white bear rose up and growled, and then chased the whole pack of
them out, both large and small. 
 A year later Halvor was out in the woods at midday of Christmas Eve,
gathering wood for the holidays, for he expected the trolls again. As he
was chopping, he heard a voice shouting from the woods, "Halvor!
Halvor!" 
 "Yes?" said Halvor. 
 "Do you still have that big cat?" 
 "Yes," said Halvor. "She's lying at home under the stove, and what's
more, she now has seven kittens, far bigger and fiercer than she is
herself." 
 "Then, we'll never come to your place again," shouted the troll in the
woods, and since that time the trolls have never eaten their Yule porridge
with Halvor on the Dovrefjell."