There was once a farmer who was extremely poor. It happened that when
his poverty was greatest a son was born to him, and this son was such a
lucky child that his father speedily became quite as rich as he was before
poor, and obtained a great name over all the country. 
 After a certain time the farmer thought to himself, "I must get my son
betrothed somewhere. I was poor once, but I am now rich, and my son is
lucky. It is right that he should be betrothed to the daughter of some
rich man like myself." 
 It was long before he found a suitable match, but at last he betrothed
the boy to a girl who lived in a distant town. The ceremony came on, much
money was spent, many guests were invited, and much food was given away.
In short, the betrothal was splendid. 
 The son had scarcely grown to manhood when the father died, leaving him
in the world alone. 
 The parents of his betrothed, when they heard the sad news, felt very
sorry for him, and at first they would have brought him to live at their
own house. But the mother said, "He is old enough now to come and take our
daughter home with him, so let us send for him that he may do so. No
friend like a good wife." 
 A messenger was accordingly sent off, and the lad, when he received the
invitation, dressed himself up in his best, and, mounting his mare, set
off. 
 On the way he came to a lonely jungle, in which he saw a mongoose and a
snake of enormous dimensions, engaged in deadly combat. He reined up his
horse to look on. The mongoose soon began to wear out his adversary, and
to inflict such wounds as would have put an end to its life in a short
time. Seeing which, the boy considered to himself, "When two are
contending, it is an act of charity to separate them." So he tried to
separate the combatants, but every time he failed, as the mongoose again
and again sprang upon his adversary in spite of him. Finding he could not
prevail, he drew his sword and dealt the warlike little mongoose his
death-blow. 
 After this he went on again, but he had not proceeded far when he found
that the snake had rushed round and intercepted him.  
 Then began the boy to remonstrate. "I did you good service," said he.
"Why, then, have you pursued me?" 
 "It is true," answered the snake, "that you saved me from my enemy. But
I shall not let you go. I shall eat you." 
 "Surely," replied the lad, "one good turn deserves another. Will you
injure me because I assisted you? In my country we do not deal with each
other thus." 
 "In these parts," said the snake, "the custom is different. Everyone
here observes the rule of returning evil for good." 
 The boy then began to argue with the snake, but he argued in vain, for
the snake was determined to eat him. At last he said, "Very well, snake,
you can eat me. But first give me eight days to go about my business,
after which I shall come back." 
 With this request the snake complied, saying, "Be it so. In eight days
you must return to me." 
 The snake, which had coiled himself round about the boy's body, now
released his hold and suffered him to depart. So he rode on once more and
completed his journey. 
 All his friends were very glad to see the young bridegroom, and
especially his little wife, and at his father-in-law's house he remained
for several days. But as he was always downcast and sad, they asked him,
"Why are you so sorrowful?" For six days they asked in vain. On the
seventh they spoke to their daughter, "Is he angry? What is the matter
with him" But she also asked him in vain. 
 When the eight day came, he said, "Now let me go home." The father and
mother then gave the daughter her portion, and, having placed them both in
a bullock cart, they sent the young couple away. 
 So the two traveled until they had left the village far behind them.
Then said the lad to his wife and to her servants, "Return now back again
to your own home. As for me, it is decreed that I shall die on the
way." 
 All the servants, being alarmed, at once returned, but his young wife
said, "Where you fall, I shall fall. What am I to do at my house?" So she
continued to accompany her husband. 
 When he arrived at the spot appointed, he dismounted from his horse and
called forth the snake. 
 "I have come," said he, "in accordance with my promise. If you wish to
eat me, come and eat me now!" 
 His wife, hearing his ominous words, descended also, and came and stood
by her husband's side. By and by a dreadful hissing sound was heard, and
the snake crawled out from the jungle, and was preparing to devour the
unfortunate boy, when the girl exclaimed, "Why are you going to eat this
poor youth?" 
 The snake then told her the whole story, how he was fighting with a
mongoose, and how her husband interfered and killed his adversary. "And in
this country," continued he, "our custom is to return evil for good!" 
 The young wife now tried all the arguments she could think of to divert
the monster from his purpose, but he was deaf to her pleadings and refused
to listen to them. Then said she, "You say that in this country people do
evil in return for good. This is so strange a custom, and so very
unreasonable, that I would fain know the history of it. How did it all
come about?" 
 "Do you see those five talli trees?" answered the snake. Go you to them
and cry out to them, 'What is the reason that in this country folks do
evil in return for good?' and see what they will say to you!" 
 The girl went and did as she was bidden, addressing her request to the
middle of the five. 
 The tree straightway answered her: 
 
 Count us! We are now five, but once we were six -- three pairs. The
sixth tree was hollow, having a vast cavity in its trunk. It happened once
upon a time, many years ago, that a certain thief went and robbed a house,
and that the people followed him. He ran and ran and ran, and at last he
came in among us. It was night, but the moon was shining, and the thief
hid himself in the hollow talli tree. Hearing his pursuers close at hand,
he besought the tree, saying, "O tree, tree, save me!" 
 When the talli tree heard his miserable cry it closed up its old sides
upon him, and hid him in a safe embrace, so that the people searched for
him in vain, and they had to return without him. When all pursuit was
over, the tree once more opened and let him go. 
 Now, in this old talli tree there was sandal wood, and the thief, when
he went forth, had the scent of sandal wood so permanently fixed upon him
that wherever he was, and wherever he appeared, he diffused a delightful
fragrance. It so happened that he visited the city of a certain king, and
a man passing him on the road suddenly stopped, and asked him, "Where did
you get this beautiful scent?" 
 "You are mistaken," answered the thief. "I have no scent." 
 "If you will give me this scent," said the man, "I will pay you its
value." 
 Again the thief answered, "I have no scent -- none." 
 Then the man, who was shrewd and intelligent, went his way to the king
and told him, "There is a stranger arrived here who possesses a most
wonderful scent. To your highness, perhaps, he might be induced to give it
up." 
 The king then ordered the thief into his presence, and said to him,
"Show me the scent you have." 
 "I have none," said he. 
 "If you will give it up to me quietly," said the king, "you shall be
rewarded. If not, you shall be put to death." 
 When the thief heard this he got frightened and said, "Do not kill me,
and I will tell the whole story." So he told the king how his life was
preserved in the heart of the talli tree, and how the scent of sandal wood
had never left him since. 
 Then said the king, "Come along and show me that wonderful tree of
which you tell me." 
 Arriving at this very spot, the king instantly gave orders to his
followers to cut the tree down and to carry it to his palace. But when the
talli tree heard his order, and when it understood the reason of it, it
cried aloud, "I have saved the life of a man, and for this I am to lose my
own life. For the future, therefore, let it be decreed within this jungle
that whosoever dares to do good, to him it shall be repaid in evil!" 
 
 The girl, having heard this doleful story, returned once more to her
husband's side. 
 "Well," said the snake, "have you consulted the talli tree? And do you
find that our custom here is even as I told you?" 
 She was compelled to admit that it was so. But as the monster advanced
to his victim, she wept and said, "What will become of me? If you must eat
my husband, you must begin by eating me!" 
 The snake objected to an arrangement so unreasonable. "You?" cried he.
"But you have never done me the smallest good. You have not even done me
harm. How, then, can I be expected to eat you?" 
 "But if you kill my husband," replied she, "what's left for me? You
acknowledge yourself that I have done you no good, and yet you would
inflict this injury upon me." 
 When the snake heard these words he stopped, and began to grow
remorseful, especially as she wept more copiously than ever. That the boy
must be eaten was certain, but how should he comfort the girl? Wishing to
devise something, he crept back to his hole, and in a few minutes he
returned with two magic globules or pills. "Here, foolish woman," said he,
"take these two pills and swallow them, and you will have two sons to whom
you can devote yourself, and who will take good care of you!" 
 The girl accepted the pills, but, with the cunning natural to a woman,
said, "If I take these two pills, doubtless two sons will be born. But
what about my good name?" 
 The snake, who knew not that she was already wed, hearing her speech,
became exasperated with her. "Women are preposterous beings," cried he,
and he crept back once more to his hole. This time he brought out two more
pills, and when handing them to the disconsolate girl he said, "Revenge
will sweeten your lot. When any of your neighbors revile you on account of
your sons, take one of these pills between finger and thumb, hold it over
them, rubbing it gently so that some of the powder may fall on them, and
immediately you will see them consume away to ashes." 
 Tying the former pills in her cloth, the girl looked at the other pills
incredulously, and then, with a sudden thought, she gently rubbed them
over the snake, saying with an innocent air, "O snake, explain this
mystery to me again! Is this the way I am to rub them?" 
 The moment an atom of the magic powder had touched the snake, he was
set on fire, and in another instant he was merely a long wavy line of gray
dust lying on the ground. 
 Then with a glad face the little wife turned to her husband and said,
"Whosoever does good to anyone, in the end good will be done to him. And
whosoever does evil to anyone, in the end evil will be done to him. You
did good, and lo! you are rewarded. The snake did evil, and evil befell
him. All things help each other. The Almighty brings everything to rights
at last." 
 After this the two went on their way to their own home, where they
lived in happiness and contentment for many a year.