Once a journeyman came to a peasant woman and asked her for a handout. 
She gave him something to eat and asked where he came from. 
 "From Paris," he answered, but the peasant woman, who was somewhat hard 
of hearing, understood "from paradise." 
 "Oh," she said, "if you come from paradise then for sure you must know 
my blessed first husband, who was released 
from purgatory long ago and by now must be in heaven." 
 The journeyman, who caught on very quickly, said, "Of course, I know 
him very well. But he is suffering from the 
severe cold, and he asked me when I go to earth to look up his wife and 
ask her if she wouldn't send him a pair of boots and some warm clothes." 
 So the peasant woman put together a bundle of clothes from her second 
husband: boots, jacket, trousers, vest, and hat. 
These she gave to journeyman so he could take them to her husband in 
paradise. And then the journeyman disappeared with the clothes. 
 When her husband came home, the woman told him that a little while ago 
a journeyman had been here, and that she had 
given him boots and clothes for her blessed deceased husband, for the 
journeyman had come directly from paradise. 
 The man cursed about her stupidity, and asked in which direction the 
journeyman had left, for he intended to pursue him 
and take the clothes away from him. In order to make better time, he 
chased after him on horseback. 
 The journeyman had gone a good way down the main road when he saw a 
rider in the distance. Seeing that it was a 
peasant, he immediately assumed that he was being pursued. Therefore he 
quickly threw the boots and the clothing over a 
garden fence, then sat down next to the road and placed his hat next to 
him in the grass. 
 When the peasant reached him, he asked him if he had seen a man 
carrying a bundle of clothes and a pair of boots. 
 "Yes," said the sitting man, "I met him a little while ago, and he told 
me where he was going. But you will never catch 
him, because he will see from afar that you are chasing after him. But, do 
you know what? If you will look after the bird that 
I have here under my hat, I will get on your horse and ride after him and 
bring the clothes back to you. He won't run away from me." 
 The peasant was very pleased with this, and he let the rascal mount his 
horse, while he sat down on the ground and watched the bird. 
 Hour after hour passed by, and the horse and rider did not return. 
Finally the peasant began to see the light. Cautiously 
he lifted up the hat to see what kind of rare bird was under it. O horror! 
He held his nose and quickly put the hat back over 
the "bird." Sadly he returned home. 
 He arrived home on foot and without his horse and without the clothes 
and boots. His wife asked him where he had left 
the horse, and where the clothes and boots were. 
 "Oh," said the man, "he really was a messenger from heaven. I let him 
keep the clothes and gave him the horse so he 
could return to heaven faster."