Once upon a time there existed somewhere in the world, nobody knows
where, a school which was called the Black School. There the pupils
learned witchcraft and all sorts of ancient arts. Wherever this school
was, it was somewhere below ground, and was held in a strong room which,
as it had no window, was eternally dark and changeless. There was no
teacher either, but everything was learnt from books with fiery letters,
which could be read quite easily in the dark. Never were the pupils
allowed to go out into the open air or see the daylight during the whole
time they stayed there, which was from five to seven years. By then they
had gained a thorough and perfect knowledge of the sciences to be learnt.
A shaggy gray hand came through the wall every day with the pupils' meals,
and when they had finished eating and drinking took back the horns and
platters. But one of the rules of the school was, that the owner should
keep for himself that one of the students who should leave the school the
last every year. And, considering that it was pretty well known among the
pupils that the devil himself was the master, you may fancy what a
scramble there was at each year's end, everybody doing his best to avoid
being last to leave the school. 
 It happened once that three Icelanders went to this school, by the name
of Sæmundur the Learned, Kálfur Arnason, and
Hálfdán Eldjárnsson; and as they all arrived at the
same time, they were all supposed to leave at the same time.
Sæmundur declared himself willing to be the last of them, at which
the others were much lightened in mind. So he threw over himself a large
mantle, leaving the sleeves loose and the fastenings free.  
 A staircase led from the school to the upper world, and when
Sæmundur was about to mount this the devil grasped at him and said,
"You are mine!" 
 But Sæmundur slipped out of this mantle and made off with all
speed, leaving the devil the empty cloak. However, just as he left the
school the heavy iron door was slammed suddenly to, and wounded
Sæmundur on the heels. Then he said, "That was pretty close upon my
heels," which words have since passed into a proverb. The Sæmundur
contrived to escape from the Black School, with his companions,
scot-free. 
 Some people relate, that, when Sæmundur came into the doorway,
the sun shone upon him and threw his shadow onto the opposite wall. And as
the devil stretched out his hand to grapple with him, Sæmundur said,
"I am not the last. Do you not see who follows me?"  
 So the devil seized the shadow, mistaking it for a man, and
Sæmundur escaped with a blow on his heels from the iron door. 
 But from that hour he was always shadowless, for whatever the devil
took, he never gave back again.