Peahens 
 
 Once upon a time there lived a king who had three sons. Now, before the
king's palace grew a golden apple tree, which in one and the same night
blossomed, bore fruit, and lost all its fruit, though no one could tell
who took the apples. One day the king, speaking to his eldest son, said,
"I should like to know who takes the fruit from our apple tree!"
 And the son said, "I will keep guard tonight, and will see who gathers
the apples."
 So when the evening came he went and laid himself down, under the apple
tree, upon the ground to watch. Just, however, as the apples ripened, he
fell asleep, and when he awoke in the morning, there was not a single one
left on the tree. Whereupon he went and told his father what had happened.
 Then the second son offered to keep watch by the tree, but he had no
better success than his eldest brother.
 So the turn came to the king's youngest son to keep guard. He made his
preparations, brought his bed under the tree, and immediately went to
sleep. Before midnight he awoke and looked up at the tree, and saw how the
apples ripened, and how the whole palace was lit up by their shining.
 At that minute nine peahens flew towards the tree, and eight of them
settled on its branches, but the ninth alighted near him and turned
instantly into a beautiful girl -- so beautiful, indeed, that the whole
kingdom could not produce one who could in any way compare with her.
 She stayed, conversing kindly with him, till after midnight, then
thanking him for the golden apples, she prepared to depart. But, as he
begged she would leave him one, she gave him two, one for himself and one
for the king his father. Then the girl turned again into a peahen, and
flew away with the other eight. Next morning, the king's son took the two
apples to his father, and the king was much pleased, and praised his son.
 When the evening came, the king's youngest son took his place again
under the apple tree to keep guard over it. He again conversed as he had
done the night before with the beautiful girl, and brought to his father,
the next morning, two apples as before.
 But, after he had succeeded so well several nights, his two elder
brothers grew envious because he had been able to do what they could not.
At length they found an old woman, who promised to discover how the
youngest brother had succeeded in saving the two apples. So, as the
evening came, the old woman stole softly under the bed which stood under
the apple tree, and hid herself. And after a while, came also the king's
son, and laid himself down as usual to sleep. When it was near midnight
the nine peahens flew up as before, and eight of them settled on the
branches, and the ninth stood by his bed, and turned into a most beautiful
girl.
 Then the old woman slowly took hold of one of the girl's curls, and cut
it off, and the girl immediately rose up, changed again into a peahen and
flew away, and the other peahens followed her, and so they all
disappeared.
 Then the king's son jumped up, and cried out, "What is that?" and,
looking under the bed, he saw the old woman, and drew her out. Next
morning he order her to be tied to a horse's tail, and so torn to pieces.
But the peahens never came back, so the king's son was very sad for a long
time, and wept at his loss.
 At length he resolved to go and look after his peahen; resolving never
to come back again unless he should find her. When he told the king his
father of his intention, the king begged him not do go away, and told him
that he would find him another beautiful girl, and that he might choose
out of the whole kingdom.
 But all the king's persuasions were useless, so his son went into the
world -- taking only one servant to serve him -- to search everywhere for
his peahen.
 After many travels he came one day to a lake. Now by the lake stood a
large and beautiful palace. In the palace lived an old woman as queen, and
with the queen lived a girl, her daughter. He said to the old woman, "For
heaven's sake, grandmother, do you know anything about nine golden
peahens?"
 And the old woman answered, "Oh, my son, I know all about them. They
come every midday to bathe in the lake. But what do you want with them?
Let them be. Think nothing about them. Here is my daughter. Such a
beautiful girl! And such an heiress! All my wealth will remain to you if
you marry her."
 But he, burning with desire to see the peahens, would not listen to
what the old woman spoke about her daughter.
 Next morning, when day dawned, the prince prepared to go down to the
lake to wait for the peahens. Then the old queen bribed the servant and
gave him a little pair of bellows, and said, "Do you see these bellows?
When you come to the lake you must blow secretly with them behind his
neck, and then he will fall asleep, and not be able to speak to the
peahens."
 The mischievous servant did as the old woman told him. When he went
with his master down to the lake, he took occasion to blow with the
bellows behind his neck, and the poor prince fell asleep just as though he
were dead.
 Shortly after, the nine peahens came flying, and eight of them alighted
by the lake, but the ninth flew towards him as he sat on horseback, and
caressed him, and tried to awaken him. "Awake my darling! Awake, my heart!
Awake, my soul!"
 But for all that he knew nothing, just as if he were dead.
 After they had bathed, all the peahens flew away together, and after
they were gone the prince woke up, and said to his servant, "What has
happened? Did they not come?"
 The servant told him they had been there, and that eight of them had
bathed, but the ninth had sat by him on his horse, and caressed and tried
to awaken him. Then the king's son was so angry that he almost killed
himself in his rage.
 Next morning he went down again to the shore to wait for the peahens,
and rode about a long time till the servant again found an opportunity of
blowing with the bellows behind his neck, so that he again fell asleep as
though dead. Hardly had he fallen asleep before the nine peahens came
flying, and eight of them alighted by the water, but the ninth settled
down by the side of his horse and caressed him, and cried out to awaken
him, "Arise, my darling! Arise, my heart! Arise my soul!"
 But it was of no use. The prince slept on as if he were dead. Then she
said to the servant, "Tell your master, tomorrow he can see us here again,
but nevermore."
 With these words the peahens flew away. Immediately after, the king's
son woke up and asked his servant, "Have they not been here?"
 And the man answered, "Yes, they have been, and say that you can see
them again tomorrow, at this place, but after that they will not return
again."
 When the unhappy prince heard that, he knew not what to do with
himself, and in his great trouble and misery tore the hair from his head.
 The third day he went down again to the shore, but, fearing to fall
asleep, instead of riding slowly, galloped along the shore. His servant,
however, found an opportunity of blowing with the bellows behind his neck,
and again the prince fell asleep.
 A moment after came the nine peahens, and the eight alighted on the
lake and the ninth by him on his horse, and sought to awaken him,
caressing him. "Arise, my darling! Arise, my heart! Arise, my soul!"
 But it was of no use. He slept on as if dead. Then the peahen said to
the servant, "When your master awakens tell him he ought to strike off the
head of the nail from the lower part, and then he will find me."
 Thereupon all the peahens fled away. Immediately the king's son awoke
and said to his servant, "Have they been here?"
 And the servant answered, "They have been, and the one which alighted
on your horse, ordered me to tell you to strike off the head of the nail
from the lower part, and then you will find her."
 When the prince heard that, he drew his sword and cut off his servant's
head.
 After that he traveled alone about the world, and, after long
traveling, came to a mountain and remained all night there with a hermit,
whom he asked if he knew anything about nine golden peahens.
 The hermit said, "Eh! My son, you are lucky. God has led you in the
right path. From this place it is only a half a day's walk. But you must
go straight on, then you will come to a large gate, which you must pass
through. And, after that, you must keep always to the right hand, and so
you will come to the peahens' city, and there find their palace."
 So next morning the king's son arose, and prepared to go. He thanked
the hermit, and went as he had told him. After a while he came to the
great gate, and, having passed it, turned to the right, so that at midday
he saw the city, and beholding how white it shone, rejoiced very much.
 When he came into the city he found the palace where lived the nine
golden peahens. But at the gate he was stopped by the guard, who demanded
who he was, and whence he came. After he had answered these questions, the
guards went to announce him to the queen.
 When the queen heard who he was, she came running out to the gate and
took him by the hand to lead him into the palace. She was a young and
beautiful maiden, and so there was a great rejoicing when, after a few
days, he married her and remained there with her.
 One day, some time after their marriage, the queen went out to walk,
and the king's son remained in the palace. Before going out, however, the
queen gave him the keys of twelve cellars, telling him, "You may go down
into all the cellars except the twelfth -- that must on no account open,
or it will cost you your head."
 She then went away. The king's son whilst remaining in the palace began
to wonder what there could be in the twelfth cellar, and soon commenced
opening one cellar after the other.
 When he came to the twelfth he would not at first open it, but again
began to wonder very much why he was forbidden to go into it. "What can be
in this cellar?" he exclaimed to himself.
 At last he opened it. In the middle of the cellar lay a big barrel with
an open bung-hole, but bound fast round with three iron hoops. Out of the
barrel came a voice, saying, "For God's sake, my brother, I am dying with
thirst. Please give me a cup of water!"
 Then the king's son took a cup and filled it with water, and emptied it
into the barrel. Immediately he had done so, one of the hoops burst
asunder.
 Again came the voice from the barrel, "For God's sake, my brother, I am
dying of thirst. Please give me a cup of water!"
 The king's son again filled the cup, and took it, and emptied it into
the barrel, and instantly another hoop burst asunder.
 The third time the voice came out of the barrel, "For God's sake, my
brother, I am dying of thirst. Please give me a cup of water!"
 The king's son again took the cup and filled it, and poured the water
into the barrel, and the third hoop burst. Then the barrel fell to pieces,
and a dragon flew out of the cellar, and caught the queen on the road and
carried her away.
 Then the servant, who went out with the queen, came back quickly, and
told the king's son what had happened, and the poor prince knew not what
to do with himself, so desperate was he, and full of self reproaches. At
length, however, he resolved to set out and travel through the world in
search of her.
 After long journeying, one day he came to a lake, and near it, in a
little hole, he saw a little fish jumping about. When the fish saw the
king's son, she began to beg pitifully, "For God's sake, be my brother,
and throw me into the water. Some day I may be of use to you, so take now
a little scale from me, and when you need me, rub it gently."
 Then the king's son lifted the little fish from the hole and threw her
into the water, after he had taken one small scale, which he wrapped up
carefully in a handkerchief.
 Some time afterwards, as he traveled about the world, he came upon a
fox, caught in an iron trap. When the fox saw the prince, he spoke, "In
God's name, be a brother to me, and help me to get out of this trap. One
day you will need me, so take just one hair from my tail, and when you
want me, rub it gently."
 Then the king's son took a hair from the tail of the fox, and let him
free.
 Again, as he crossed a mountain, he found a wolf fast in a trap; and
when the wolf saw him, it spoke, "Be a brother to me. In God's name, set
me free, and one day I will help you. Only take a hair from me, and when
you need me, rub it gently."
 So he took a hair, and let the wolf free.
 After that, the king's son traveled about a very long time, till one
day he met a man, to whom he said, "For God's sake, brother, have you ever
heard anyone say where is the palace of the dragon king?"
 The man gave him very particular directions which way to take, and in
what length of time he could get there. Then the king's son thanked him
and continued his journey until he came to the city where the dragon
lived.
 When there, he went into the palace and found therein his wife, and
both of them were exceedingly pleased to meet each other, and began to
take counsel how they could escape. They resolved to run away, and
prepared hastily for the journey. When all was ready they mounted on
horseback and galloped away.
 As soon as they were gone, the dragon came home, also on horseback,
and, entering his palace, found that the queen had gone away. Then he said
to his horse, "What shall we do now? Shall we eat and drink, or go at once
after them?"
 The horse answered, "Let us eat and drink first. We shall anyway catch
them. Do not be anxious."
 After the dragon had dined, he mounted his horse, and in a few moments
came up with the runaways. Then he took the queen from the king's son and
said to him, "Go now, in God's name! This time I forgive you, because you
gave me water in the cellar. But if your life is dear to you, do not come
back here any more!"
 The unhappy young prince went on his way a little, but could not long
resist, so he came back next day to the dragon's palace, and found the
queen sitting alone and weeping.
 Then they began again to consult how they could get away. And the
prince said, "When the dragon comes, ask him where he got that horse, and
then you will tell me so that I can look for such another one; perhaps in
this way we can escape."
 He then went away, lest the dragon should come and find him with the
queen.
 By and by the dragon came home, and the queen began to pet him, and
speak lovingly to him about many things, till at last she said, "Ah! what
a fine horse you have! Where did you get such a splendid horse?"
 And he answered, "Eh! Where I got it everyone cannot get one! In such
and such a mountain lives an old woman who has twelve horses in her
stable, and no one can say which is the finest, they are all so beautiful.
But in one corner of the stable stands a horse which looks as if he were
leprous, but, in truth, he is the very best horse in the whole world. He
is the brother of my horse, and whoever gets him may ride to the sky. But
whoever wishes to get a horse from that old woman, must serve her three
days and three nights. She has a mare with a foal, and whoever during
three nights guards and keeps for her this mare and this foal, has a right
to claim the best horse from the old woman's stable. But whoever engages
to keep watch over the mare and does not, must lose his head!"
 Next day, when the dragon went out, the king's son came, and the queen
told him all she had learned from the dragon. Then the king's son went
away to the mountain and found the old woman, and entered her house,
greeting, "God help you too, my son! What do you wish?"
 "I should like to serve you," said the king's son. Then the old woman
said, "Well, my son, if you keep my mare safe for three days and three
nights, I will give you the best horse, and you can choose him yourself.
But if you do not keep the mare safe, you shall lose your head."
 Then she led him into the courtyard, where all around stakes were
ranged. Each of them had on it a man's head, except one stake, which had
no head on it, and shouted incessantly, "Oh, grandmother, give me a head!"
 The old woman showed all this to the prince, and said, "Look here! All
these were heads of those who tried to keep my mare, and they have lost
their heads for their pains!"
 But the prince was not a bit afraid, so he stayed to serve the old
woman. When the evening came he mounted the mare and rode her into the
field, and the foal followed. He sat still on her back, having made up his
mind not to dismount, that he might be sure of her. But before midnight he
slumbered a little, and when he awoke he found himself sitting on a rail
and holding the bridle in his hand.
 Then he was greatly alarmed, and went instantly to look about to find
the mare, and whilst looking for her, he came to a piece of water. When he
saw the water he remembered the little fish, and took the scale from the
handkerchief and rubbed it a little. Then immediately the little fish
appeared and said, "What is the matter, my half-brother?"
 And he replied, "The mare of the old woman ran away whilst under my
charge, and now I do not know where she is!"
 And the fish answered, "Here she is, turned to a fish, and the foal to
a smaller one. But strike once upon the water with the bridle and cry out,
'Hey! mare of the old woman!'"
 The prince did as he was told, and immediately the mare came, with the
foal, out of the water to the shore. Then he put on her the bridle and
mounted and rode away to the old woman's house, and the foal followed.
When he got there the old woman gave him his breakfast. She, however, took
the mare into the stable and beat her with a poker, saying, "Why did you
not go down among the fishes, you cursed mare?"
 And the mare answered, "I have been down to the fishes, but the fish
are his friends, and they told him about me."
 Then the old woman said, "Then go among the foxes!"
 When evening came the king's son mounted the mare and rode to the
field, and the foal followed the mare. Again he sat on the mare's back
until near midnight, when he fell asleep as before. When he awoke, he
found himself riding on the rail and holding the bridle in his hand.
 So he was much frightened, and went to look after the mare. As he went,
he remembered the words the old woman had said to the mare, and he took
from the handkerchief the fox's hair and rubbed it a little between his
fingers. All at once the fox stood before him, and asked, "What is the
matter, half-brother?"
 And he said, "The old woman's mare has run away, and I do not know
where she can be."
 Then the fox answered, "Here she is with us. She has turned into a fox,
and the foal into a cub. But strike once with the bridle on the earth and
cry out, 'Hey! you old woman's mare!'"
 So the king's son struck with the bridle on the earth and cried, "Hey!
old woman's mare!" and the mare came and stood, with her foal, near him.
 He put on the bridle, and mounted and rode off home, and the foal
followed the mare. When he arrived the old woman gave him his breakfast,
but took the mare into the stable and beat her with the poker, crying, "To
the foxes, cursed one! To the foxes!"
 And the mare answered, "I have been with the foxes, but they are his
friends, and told him I was there!"
 Then the old woman cried, "If that is so, you must go among the
wolves!"
 When it grew dark again, the king's son mounted the mare and rode out
to the field, and the foal galloped by the side of the mare. Again he sat
still on the mare's back till about midnight, when he grew very sleepy and
fell into a slumber, as on the former evenings, and when he awoke he found
himself riding on the rail, holding the bridle in his hand, just as
before.
 Then, as before, he went in a hurry to look after the mare. As he went,
he remembered the words the old woman had said to the mare, and took the
wolf's hair from the handkerchief and rubbed it a little. Then the wolf
came up to him and asked, "What is the matter, half-brother?"
 And he answered, "The old woman's mare has run away, and I cannot tell
where she is."
 The wolf said, "Here she is with us. She has turned herself into a
wolf, and the foal into a wolf's cub. Strike once with the bridle on the
earth and cry out, 'Hey! old woman's mare!'"
 And the king's son did so, and instantly the mare came again and stood
with the foal beside him. So he bridled her, and galloped home, and the
foal followed. When he arrived the old woman gave him his breakfast, but
she led the mare into the stable and beat her with the poker, crying, "To
the wolves, I said, miserable one!"
 And the mare answered, "I have been to the wolves, but they are his
friends, and told him all about me!"
 Then the old woman came out of the stable, and the king's son said to
her, "Eh! grandmother, I have served you honestly. Now give me what you
promised me."
 And the old woman answered, "My son, what is promised must be
fulfilled. So look here. Here are the twelve horses. Choose which you
like!"
 And the prince said, "Why should I be too particular? Give me only that
leprous horse in the corner! Fine horses are not fitting for me!"
 But the old woman tried to persuade him to choose another horse,
saying, "How can you be so foolish as to choose that leprous thing whilst
there are such very fine horses here?"
 But he remained firm by his first choice, and said to the old woman,
"You ought to give me which I choose, for so you promised."
 So, when the old woman found she could not make him change his mind,
she gave him the scabby horse, and he took leave of her, and went away,
leading the horse by the halter.
 When he came to a forest he curried and rubbed down the horse, when it
shone as bright as gold. He then mounted, and the horse flew as quickly as
a bird, and in a few seconds brought him to the dragon's palace.
 The king's son went in and said to the queen, "Get ready as soon as
possible!" She was soon ready, when they both mounted the horse, and began
their journey home. Soon after, the dragon came home, and when he saw the
queen had disappeared, said to his horse, "What shall we do? Shall we eat
and drink first, or shall we pursue them at once?"
 The horse answered, "Whether we eat and drink or not, it is all one. We
shall never reach them."
 When the dragon heard that, he got quickly on his horse and galloped
after them. When they saw the dragon following them, they pushed on
quicker, but their horse said, "Do not be afraid! There is no need to run
away."
 In a very few moments the dragon came very near to them, and his horse
said to their horse, "For God's sake, my brother, wait a moment! I shall
kill myself running after you!"
 Their horse answered, "Why are you so stupid as to carry that monster?
Fling your heels up and throw him off, and come along with me!"
 When the dragon's horse heard that, he shook his head angrily and flung
his feet high in the air, so that the dragon fell off and brake in pieces,
and his horse came up to them.
 Then the queen mounted him and returned with the king's son happily to
her kingdom, where they reigned together in great prosperity until the day
of their death.