There was a marriage in the townland of Curragraigue. After the usual
festivities, and when the guests were left to themselves, and were
drinking to the prosperity of the bride and bridegroom, they were startled
by the appearance of the man himself rushing into the room with anguish in
his looks. 
 "Oh!" cried he, "Margaret is carried away by the fairies, I'm sure. The
girls were not left the room for half a minute when I went in, and there
is no more sign of her there than if she never was born." 
 Great consternation prevailed, great search was made, but no Margaret
was to be found. After a night and day spent in misery, the poor
bridegroom laid down to take some rest. In a while he seemed to himself to
awake from a troubled dream, and look out into the room. The moon was
shining in through the window, and in the middle of the slanting rays
stood Margaret in her white bridal clothes. He thought to speak and leap
out of the bed, but his tongue was without utterance, and his limbs unable
to move. 
 "Do not be disturbed, dear husband," said the appearance; "I am now in
the power of the fairies, but if you only have courage and prudence we may
be soon happy with each other again. Next Friday will be May-eve, and the
whole court will ride out of the old fort after midnight. I must be there
along with the rest. Sprinkle a circle with holy water, and have a
black-hafted knife with you. If you have courage to pull me off the horse,
and draw me into the ring, all they can do will be useless. You must have
some food for me every night on the dresser, for if I taste one mouthful
with them, I will be lost to you forever. The fairies got power over me
because I was only thinking of you, and did not prepare myself as I ought
for the sacrament. I made a bad confession, and now I am suffering for it.
Don't forget what I have said." 
 "Oh, no, my darling," cried he, recovering his speech, but by the time
he had slipped out of bed, there was no living soul in the room but
himself. 
 Till Friday night the poor young husband spent a desolate time. The
food was left on the dresser over night, and it rejoiced all hearts to
find it vanished by morning. A little before midnight he was at the
entrance of the old rath. He formed the circle, took his station within
it, and kept the black-hafted knife ready for service. At times he was
nervously afraid of losing his dear wife, and at others burning with
impatience for the struggle. 
 At last the old fort with its dark high bushy fences cutting against
the sky, was in a moment replaced by a palace and its court. A thousand
lights flashed from the windows and lofty hall entrance; numerous torches
were brandished by attendants stationed round the courtyard; and a
numerous cavalcade of richly attired ladies and gentlemen was moving in
the direction of the gate where he found himself standing. 
 As they rode by him laughing and jesting, he could not tell whether
they were aware of his presence or not. He looked intent at each
countenance as it approached, but it was some time before he caught sight
of the dear face and figure borne along on a milk-white steed. She
recognized him well enough, and her features now broke into a smile -- now
expressed deep anxiety. 
 She was unable for the throng to guide the animal close to the ring of
power; so he suddenly rushed out of his bounds, seized her in his arms,
and lifted her off. Cries of rage and fury arose on every side; they were
hemmed in, and weapons were directed at his head and breast to terrify
him. He seemed to be inspired with superhuman courage and force, and
wielding the powerful knife he soon cleared a space round him, all seeming
dismayed by the sight of the weapon. He lost no time, but drew his wife
within the ring, within which none of the myriads round dared to enter.
Shouts of derision and defiance continued to fill the air for some time,
but the expedition could not be delayed. 
 As the end of the procession filed past the gate and the circle within
which the mortal pair held each other determinedly clasped, darkness and
silence fell on the old rath and the fields round it, and the rescued
bride and her lover breathed freely. We will not detain the sensitive
reader on the happy walk home, on the joy that hailed their arrival, and
on all the eager gossip that occupied the townland and the five that
surround it for a month after the happy rescue.