A truly rural story, which indicated to me no small sense of that humour which I am claiming as a set-off against our country dulness, I had from a stranger, an elderly farmer, as I took him to be, a fellow passenger in a train from Salisbury to Grately. Should my unknown friend ever see my version of his tale, I hope that he will pardon me for spoiling it by my indifferent telling, and that he will accept my thanks for the enjoyment which it afforded me. It ran thus, as nearly as I remember:  
 
Two cockneys, who had come down to stay a few days in the country, near Grately, on the borders of Hampshire and Wiltshire, met in their walk one morning an old man, who, my informant said, was "a droll old chap," and who happened to have a large pumpkin under his arm. The Londoners noticed that the old man was carrying something, though they could not quite make out what it was, and confident in their power as town-dwellers, they thought they would have a little joke at the old countryman's expense. So they opened fire.  
"Good morning, master."  
"Good marnin', zur."  
"What is that you are carrying under your arm, friend?"  
"'Tis a mare's egg, zur."  
"Dear me," said the Londoners, not liking to own their ignorance, "it's the finest we ever saw."  
"Ah, zur," said the old man, there's lots of common 'uns about, but this is a thoroughbred 'un, zur; that's what makes 'un look so vine."  
"Will you sell it?" said the cockneys.  
"Well," said the old man, "I doan't mind partin' wi' 'un, tho' I doan't s'pose you'll give the money I want for a thoroughbred mare's egg."  
After some bargaining, the men put their hands into their pockets and paid what was asked.  
The old man then handed over the pumpkin, and as he did so, looked at them very seriously, and said, "Now, mind, zur, and do 'ee take great care wi' 'un, for she'll hatch soon!"  
Away went the Londoners with their mare's egg, and as they were crossing a hill just by Grately station, which my informant pointed out, the one who was carrying the prize stumbled over one of the juniper bushes with which the hill is dotted about, and dropped the pumpkin, starting at the same time a hare out of the bush.  
In their excitement, and thinking, I suppose, that the fall had suddenly hastened the hatching, they shouted wildly to some men at work in a field at the bottom of the hill "Hi! Stop our colt! Stop our colt!"  
  
The story, told as it was in the purest Wiltshire dialect, was truly amusing.  
It is, however, a curious illustration of the temptation to give an air of reality and a proportionately increased interest to an anecdote by assigning it to a particular person or locality. When I heard the story in the train, and saw my friend point out the very scene of it on the hill at Grately, I felt that I was receiving it fresh from the very fountain-head.  
To my surprise, however, I found only the other day that the narrative in almost identical words was a favourite one of the father of one of my own parishioners, a Kentish man born and bred, who had been a resident all his life in his own county. I have since also been assured by a friend in the next parish, that her late husband's father, a Scotchman, living twenty miles beyond the border, used to tell this very same story with the greatest satisfaction. Where, therefore, it took its rise, and how it became known in districts so wide apart as Wiltshire, Kent, and the Lowlands of Scotland, are questions which I, at any rate, am not able to answer.