"Ah me! Ah me! What availeth my marriage with all these women?  Never a
son has the Deity vouchsafed me.  Must I die, and my name be altogether
forgotten in the land?"  Thus soliloquized one of the greatest monarchs
that ever reigned in Kashmir, and then went to his  zanána 
[the apartment where his wives lived], and threatened his numerous wives
with banishment if they did not bear him a son within the next year.
 The women prayed most earnestly to the god Shiva to help them to fulfil
the king's desire, and waited most anxiously for several months, hoping
against hope, till at last they knew that it was all in vain, and that
they must dissemble matters if they wished to remain in the royal
household.
 Accordingly, on an appointed time, word was sent to the king that one
of his wives was  enciente , and a little while afterwards the news
was spread abroad that a little princess was born.  But this, as we have
said, was not so.  Nothing of the kind had happened.  The truth was, that
a cat had given birth to a lot of kittens, one of which had been
appropriated by the king's wives.
 When his majesty heard the news he was exceedingly glad, and ordered
the child to be brought to him -- a very natural request, which the king's
wives had anticipated, and therefore were quite prepared with a reply. "Go
and tell the king," said they to the messenger, "that the Brahmans have
declared that the child must not be seen by her father until she is
married."  Thus the matter was hushed for a time.
 Constantly did the king inquire after his daughter, and received
wonderful accounts of her beauty and cleverness; so that his joy was
great.  Of course he would like to have had a son, but since the Deity had
not condescended to fulfil his desire, he comforted himself with the
thought of marrying his daughter to some person worthy of her, and capable
of ruling the country after him.  Accordingly, at the proper time he
commissioned his counselors to find a suitable match for his daughter.  A
clever, good, and handsome prince was soon found, and arrangements for the
marriage were quickly concluded.
 What were the king's wives to do now?  It was of no use for them to
attempt to carry on their deceit any longer.  The bridegroom would come
and would wish to see his wife, and the king, too, would expect to see
her.
 "Better," said they, "that we send for this prince and reveal
everything to him, and take our chance of the rest.  Never mind the king.
Some answer can be made to satisfy him for a while."
 So they sent for the prince and told him everything, having previously
made him swear that he would keep the secret, and not reveal it even to
his father or mother.  The marriage was celebrated in grand style, as
became such great and wealthy kings, and the king was easily prevailed on
to allow the palanquin containing the bride to leave the palace without
looking at her.  The cat only was in the palanquin, which reached the
prince's country in safety.  The prince took great care of the animal,
which he kept locked up in his own private room, and would not allow
anyone, not even his mother, to enter it.
 One day, however, while the prince was away, his mother thought that
she would go and speak to her daughter-in-law from outside the door.  "O
daughter-in-law," she cried, "I am very sorry that you are shut up in this
room and not permitted to see anybody.  It must be very dull for you.
However, I am going out today; so you can leave the room without fear of
seeing anyone. Will you come out?"
 The cat understood everything, and wept much, just like a human being.
Oh those bitter tears!  They pierced the mother's heart, so that she
determined to speak very strictly to her son on the matter as soon as he
should return.  They also reached the ears of Párvatí [the
wife of Shiva], who at once went to her lord and entreated him to have
mercy on the poor helpless cat.
 "Tell her," said Shiva, "to rub some oil over her fur, and she will
became a beautiful woman.  She will find the oil in the room where she now
is."
 Párvatí lost no time in disclosing this glad news to the
cat, who quickly rubbed the oil over its body, and was changed into the
most lovely woman that ever lived.  But she left a little spot on one of
her shoulders which remained covered with cat's fur, lest her husband
should suspect some trickery and deny her.
 In the evening the prince returned and saw his beautiful wife, and was
delighted.  Then all anxiety as to what he should reply to his mother's
earnest solicitations fled.  She had only to see the happy, smiling,
beautiful bride to know that her fears were altogether needless.
 In a few weeks the prince, accompanied by his wife, visited his
father-in-law, who, of course, believed the princess to be his own
daughter, and was glad beyond measure.  His wives too rejoiced, because
their prayer had been heard and their lives saved.  In due time the king
settled his country on the prince, who eventually ruled over both
countries, his father's and his father-in-law's, and thus became the most
illustrious and wealthy monarch in the world.