Once upon a time there was a princess who went out into a forest and sat
next to a cool well.  She took great pleasure in throwing a golden ball
into the air and catching it, but once it went too high.  She held out her
hand with her fingers curved to catch it, but it fell to the ground and
rolled and rolled right into the water.  
Horrified, the princess followed it with her eyes, but the well was so
deep that she could not see its bottom.  Then she began to cry bitterly,
"I'd give anything, if only I could get my ball back:  my clothes, my
precious stones, my pearls, anything in the world."  At this a frog stuck
his head out of the water and said, "Princess, why are you crying so
bitterly?"  
"Oh," she said, "you ugly frog, how can you help me?  My golden ball has
fallen into the well."  
The frog said, "I do not want your pearls, your precious stones, and your
clothes, but if you'll accept me as a companion and let me sit next to you
and eat from your plate and sleep in your bed, and if you'll love and
cherish me, then I'll bring your ball back to you."  
The princess thought, "What is this stupid frog trying to say?  After all,
he does have to stay here in the water.  But still, maybe he can get my
ball.  I'll go ahead and say yes," and she said aloud, "Yes, for all I
care.  Just bring me back my golden ball, and I'll promise everything."
 
The frog stuck his head under the water and dove to the bottom.  He
returned a short time later with the golden ball in his mouth and threw it
onto the land.  When the princess saw her ball once again, she rushed
toward it, picked it up, and was so happy to have it in her hand again,
that she could think of nothing else than to run home with it.  The frog
called after her, "Wait, princess, take me with you like you promised,"
but she paid no attention to him.  
The next day the princess was sitting at her table when she heard
something coming up the marble steps:  plop, plop.  Then there came a
knock at the door, and a voice called out, "Princess, princess, open the
door for me!"  She ran and opened the door.  It was the frog, whom she had
put completely out of her mind.  Frightened, she slammed the door shut and
returned to the table.  
The king saw that her heart was pounding and asked, "Why are you afraid?"
 
"There is a disgusting frog out there," she said, "who got my golden ball
out of the water.  I promised him that he could be my companion, but I
didn't think that he could leave his water, but now he is just outside the
door and wants to come in."  Just then there came a second knock at the
door, and a voice called out:  
 
Youngest daughter of the king,  
Open up the door for me,  
Don't you know what yesterday,  
You said to me down by the well?  
Youngest daughter of the king,  
Open up the door for me.  
 
The king said, "What you have promised, you must keep.  Go and let the
frog in."  She obeyed, and the frog hopped in, then followed her up to her
chair.  
After she had sat down again, he called out, "Lift me up onto your chair
and let me sit next to you."  The princess did not want to, but the king
commanded her to do it.  When the frog was seated next to her he said,
"Now push your golden plate closer.  I want to eat from it."  She had to
do this as well.  When he had eaten all he wanted, he said, "Now I am
tired and want to sleep.  Take me to your room, make your bed, so that we
can lie in it together."  
The princess was horrified when she heard that.  She was afraid of the
cold frog and did not dare to even touch him, and yet he was supposed to
lie next to her in her bed; she began to cry and didn't want to at all.
Then the king became angry and commanded her to do what she had promised.
There was no helping it; she had to do what her father wanted, but in her
heart she was bitterly angry.  She picked up the frog with two fingers,
carried him to her room, and climbed into bed, but instead of laying him
next to herself, she threw him bang! against the wall.  "Now you will
leave me in peace, you ugly frog!"  But when the frog came down onto the
bed, he was a handsome young prince, and he was her dear companion, and
she held him in esteem as she had promised, and they fell asleep together
with pleasure.  
The next morning the prince's faithful Heinrich arrived in a splendid
carriage drawn by eight horses and decorated with feathers and glistening
with gold.  He had been so saddened by the prince's enchantment that he
had had to place three iron bands around his heart to keep it from
bursting in sorrow.  The prince climbed into the carriage with the
princess.  His faithful servant stood at the rear to drive them to his
kingdom.  After they had gone a short distance, the prince heard a loud
crack.  He turned around and said:  
 
"Heinrich, the carriage is breaking apart."  
"No, my lord, the carriage it's not,  
But one of the bands surrounding my heart,  
That suffered such great pain,  
When you were sitting in the well,  
When you were a frog."  
 
Once again, and then once again the prince heard a cracking sound and
thought that the carriage was breaking apart, but it was the bands
springing from faithful Heinrich's heart because his master was now
redeemed and happy.