Little Hunchback was but a poor, melancholy creature, 
an object of pity to the compassionate, and a 
laughing-stock to the thoughtless and foolish. He was 
deformed from the day of his birth, with his weak knees 
that bent under him, and a large lump between his 
shoulders. 
 
When he reached boyhood, he was uglier 
and more deformed than he had been even in his childhood. 
He never went out of doors but a crowd of 
naughty children followed, laughing at him and mocking him. 
Their cruel conduct made him so shy and 
unsociable that he avoided their company, and he passed 
his time day after day alone in the Willow Brake, which 
stood at a short distance from his mother's house. His 
neighbors noticed where he was accustomed to go, 
and nicknamed him the Hunchback of the Willow 
Brake. 
 
On a certain evening, after suffering much ridicule 
from the children of the town where he lived, he fled 
with a sore heart and weeping eyes to the Willow Brake 
for shelter. He had not gone far into the wood, when 
he was met by the very prettiest little babe he 
had ever seen. The babe was a fairy woman, 
but he could not afterwards give a full description of 
her appearance, nor had he any recollection of her 
attire, beyond this, that about her shoulders was a green 
mantle, which was bound with a golden girdle about 
her waist, and that on her head was a green cap, with 
a tuft of silver feathers waving from its crown. 
 
"Where are you going?" said the fairy. 
 
"I am going to pass the evening in the Willow 
Brake," replied Hunchback. 
 
"Have you no companion at all with whom you can 
play?" said she then. 
 
"No; none will keep company with me, since I am 
not like other children," said Hunchback. 
 
At last she asked his name, and he told her it was 
Hunchback. 
 
"Hunchback!" she exclaimed. "It is long since 
we expected to meet you. I am Play of Sunbeam, and 
my joy is making the world merry. Come with me, 
my people are expecting you, and pass the night with 
us, and in the morning you will have neither disability 
nor defect." 
 
He went cheerfully with her, until they arrived at the 
back of the Big Fairy Knoll. 
 
"Shut your eyes, and give me your hand," said the fairy. 
 
He did as she told him, and presently they were in the very 
grandest mansion he had ever seen. She dragged him 
up through the midst of the company, singing merrily: 

 
Silence, all ye!  
Sunbeam's back hither.  
Hunchback and she  
Have come together.
 

"Success and happiness attend Play of Sunbeam!" 
said a handsome maiden, who was more finely dressed 
than the rest, and who wore on her head a gold crown 
full of jewels. 
 
"What does she wish us to do for poor Hunchback?" 

 
For pain to give him lustihead,  
And, good man's wish, a thriving trade.  
And Play of Sunbeam will be merry and glad.
 
 
And then away she went dancing, and without casting 
another look on Hunchback. 
 
"When is Play of Sunbeam otherwise?" said the 
Queen, "and according to her request let it be." 
 
The other fairies seized him, and when he thought 
that they had pulled him to pieces among them they 
let him go, and he was as straight and active as he 
behoved to be. Then he heard the sweetest music he 
had ever listened to, and joy filled his heart, and he 
began to dance with the little people that were on the 
floor, and stopped not until he fell, unable to stand 
with fatigue. He had not lain but a short time on the 
floor, till sleep crept over him, and he felt the fairies 
carrying him away through the air, and the soft, sad 
music receding further and further from him. 
 
At length he awoke, and on looking round, he found 
himself lying in the Willow Brake. He rose, and returned home. 
He had been away a year and a day; 
and in that time so great a change had come over him 
that it was with difficulty that his own mother knew 
him. She rejoiced at his coming, and after that found 
him a great help, for now he had a hand for every 
trade. 
 
Among the youngsters who used to mock at him was 
a boy that bore the nickname of Punchy. Punchy was 
a little ugly creature, with hands and feet like the paws 
of a frog, and a big hump between his shoulders. When 
he saw how Hunchback had returned, as straight as a 
rush and as gay as a calf-herd, he made friends with 
him, and rested not until Hunchback had told him 
everything that had happened, from the evening he 
went to the Willow Brake, till he came back again. 
 
He laid a vow, however, on Punchy, not to tell it to a 
living being, because he himself was under a promise 
to the fairies to keep it secret. Punchy promised to do 
as was requested of him. 
 
On that very evening Punchy went to the Willow 
Brake, expecting to meet one of the fairies who would 
heal him as Hunchback was healed; but he saw none. 
Evening after evening he continued going to the same 
place, until at last he saw a small manikin, sitting at 
the root of a holly bush, and gazing with a mocking 
smile on his countenance. 
 
"Are you Play of Sunbeam?" said Punchy. 
 
"I am not, but I am Never-Mind-Who," replied the 
manikin. "What is your business with Play of Sunbeam?" 
 
"O, that she will take this hump off me, as she took 
the hunch off Hunchback," said Punchy. "Will you 
take me to the place where she dwells?" 
 
"I will do that," said Never-Mind-Who, "but you 
will get leave to come out of it as you like." 
 
"I do not care how I get out, if I get in, and if this 
ugly hump is taken off me." 
 
The little manikin gave a loud laugh, and then went 
away with Punchy to the Big Fairy Knoll, and took 
him in, as Hunchback was taken. 
 
"Who is this come to us without invitation or tryst?" 
cried the Queen, looking sternly at Punchy. 
 
"It is a toad named Punchy whom Hunchback has 
sent on a chance journey, in the hope that his hump 
will be taken off him," replied Never-Mind-Who. 
 
"Did Hunchback break his vow and his promise, that 
never of his own accord would he tell any one how it 
fared with him here?" said the Queen, turning towards 
Punchy with wrath in her countenance. 
 
"No," replied Punchy, "for he told me nothing 
until I first prayed and entreated him." 
 
"You impudent fellow," said she, "you will get 
your deserts," and immediately she cried to the other 
fairies: "Throw the hunch on the hump, and the one load 
will take them home." 
 
"The hunch on the hump, the hunch on the hump," 
screamed all the fairies; and then they laid hold of 
Punchy by his hands and his feet, and tossed him up 
and down, to this side and that, till he lost all consciousness. 
 
When he came to himself, he lay in the Willow 
Brake, the hump twice its former size, and his bones 
so tired and bruised that he could scarcely move. With 
a great effort he got to his feet, and then crept home; 
but to the day of his death he told no one except Hunchback 
what happened to him in the Big Fairy Knoll.