Ages ago there lived a king who had three good and beautiful daughters
whom he loved very much and who in turn loved him dearly. He had no
princes, but in his kingdom it was the custom that the succession of the
throne could also pass to women and daughters. Because the king's wife was
no longer alive he was free to appoint one of his daughters to the throne,
and it did not need to be the oldest one.
 Because this king loved all of his daughters equally the decision was
very difficult for him. He came to the conclusion to select the one who
demonstrated the keenest intellect. He shared this determination with his
three daughters, declaring that his approaching birthday would be the day
of decision. The one who would bring him "the most indispensable thing"
would become queen.
 Each of the princesses thought about what would be the most
indispensable thing. When his birthday arrived, the oldest one approached
him, carrying a fine purple robe, and said, "The Lord God had mankind come
naked into the world, but then he barred them from paradise. Thus robes
and clothing are indispensable."
 The second daughter brought a loaf of fresh bread that she herself had
baked. It was lying on top of a filled beaker made of gold. "Food and
drink are the most indispensable things for mankind, born from dust, for
without these they cannot live. Thus God created the fruits of the field,
fruit, berries, and grapes, and taught mankind to make bread and wine, the
sacred symbols of his love."
 The youngest daughter brought a pile of salt on a wooden plate, saying,
"My father, I consider salt and wood to be the most indispensable. Ancient
peoples paid sacred homage to the trees and considered salt to be holy.
 The king was very surprised with these gifts. Thinking about them, he
said, "Purple is the most indispensable thing for a king, for if he has
it, he has everything else. If he loses it, then he is no longer king and
is as common as other humans. Because you have perceived this, my oldest
and beloved daughter, after me you shall be decorated with royal purple.
Come to me and receive my thanks and my blessing!"
 After kissing and blessing his oldest daughter, he said to the second
oldest, "Eating and drinking are not altogether necessary, my good child,
and they draw us down entirely too much into commonness. They are a sign
of mediocrity and of the masses. I cannot hinder you if you find pleasure
therein, nor can I thank you for your poorly chosen gift, but you shall be
blessed for your good will." Then the king blessed his daughter, but he
did not kiss her.
 Then he turned to the third princess, who was standing there pale and
trembling. After what she had seen and heard, she sensed what was to come.
 "My daughter, on your wooden plate you may well have some salt, but in
your brain you have none," said the king. "You are still alive, and
therefore salt is not indispensable. One does not need salt. With your
salt you are showing the sense of a peasant, not the sense of a king. And
I take no pleasure on that stiff wooden thing. Thus I can neither thank
you nor bless you. Go away from me, as far as your feet will carry you. Go
to the stupid and coarse people who worship old blocks of wood and tree
limbs instead of the living God, and who consider common salt to be
sacred."
 Crying, the youngest princess then turned away from her hard father,
and walked far, far away from the court and the royal city, as far as her
feet would carry her.
 She came to an inn and offered her services to the female innkeeper.
The innkeeper was touched by her humility, innocence, youth, and beauty,
and she took her in as a maid. The princess soon mastered all the
household duties, and the innkeeper said, "It would be a pity if the girl
did not learn a decent skill. I'll teach her to cook."
 And thus the princess learned to cook. She grasped everything quickly,
and soon could cook some dishes even better and more delicious than the
teacher herself. Business improved at the inn because of the good cooking
there, and the good cook's reputation -- who was also so young and so
beautiful -- spread throughout the entire land.
 Now it came to pass that this cook's father's oldest daughter was about
to be married. A royal wedding was to be held, and it was recommended to
bring the famous cook to the court to prepare the feast, for the lords at
the royal court, the marshals, the royal wine stewards, the royal dining
stewards, the masters of ceremony, the chamberlains, and other
excellencies did not share the view that their most gracious lord the king
had once expressed, that eating and drinking were not altogether necessary
and that they draw us down to commonness. To the contrary, they praised
all good food and fine wine and honored -- at least inwardly -- that old
and true proverb, "Eating and drinking hold body and soul together."
 The wedding meal was deliciously prepared, nor was the king's favorite
dish lacking, which had been specially ordered by the royal dining
steward. The meal was served. There came one dish after the other, and
each was highly praised.
 Finally came the king's favorite dish, and it was served first to him.
He tried it and found it completely tasteless. His cheerful mood darkened,
and he spoke to the chamberlain standing behind his golden armchair, "This
dish is ruined! It is terrible! Stop the platters from being passed
around, and summon the cook!"
 The cook entered the magnificent hall, and the king addressed her, "You
have ruined my favorite dish. You have spoiled my pleasure by not putting
any salt in my favorite dish!"
 Then the cook fell at the king's feet, saying with humility, "Have
mercy, your majesty, my royal lord, and forgive me! How could I have dared
to mix salt into your food? Did I not once hear from a lofty king's own
mouth the words, " One does not need salt. Salt is not indispensable. Salt
shows only the sense of a peasant, not the sense of a king!"
 With shame the king recognized these words as his own and the cook as
his daughter. Lifting her from the floor where she was kneeling, he drew
her to his heart. He then told all the wedding guests her story and had
his youngest daughter once again be seated by his side.
 Then the wedding became doubly joyful, and the king was once again
entirely happy with his daughter's love.
 Salt is holy.