On the banks of the Ganges, which also flows by the most holy city of
Benares, there is a town named Mithila, where dwelt a very poor Brahman
called Vidyadhara. He had no children, and to compensate for this want, he
and his wife tenderly nourished in their house a mongoose -- a species of
weasel. It was their all in all -- their younger son, their elder daughter
-- their younger son, their elder daughter -- their elder son, their
younger daughter, so fondly did they regard that little creature. 
 The god Visvesvara and his spouse Visalakshi observed this and had pity
for the unhappy pair; so by their divine power they blessed them with a
son. This most welcome addition to their family did not alienate the
affections of the Brahman and his wife from the mongoose; on the contrary,
their attachment increased, for they believed that it was because of their
having adopted the pet that a son had been born to them. So the child and
the mongoose were brought up together, as twin brothers, in the same
cradle. 
 It happened one day when the Brahman had gone out to beg alms of the
pious and charitable, that his wife went into the garden to cull some
pot-herbs, leaving the child asleep in his cradle, and by his side the
mongoose kept guard. An old serpent, which was living in the well in the
garden, crept into the house and under the cradle, and was beginning to
climb into it to bite the child when the mongoose fiercely attacked it and
tore it into several pieces, thus saving the life of the Brahman's little
son, and the venomous snake, that came to slay, itself lay dead beneath
the cradle. 
 Pleased at having performed such an exploit, the mongoose ran into the
garden to show the Brahman's wife its blood-smeared mouth, but she rashly
mistook the deliverer of her child for his destroyer, and with one stroke
of the knife in her hand with which she was cutting herbs she killed the
faithful creature, and then hastened into the house to see her dead son.
But there she found the child in his cradle alive and well, only crying at
the absence of his little companion, the mongoose, and under the cradle
lay the great serpent cut to pieces. 
 The real state of affairs was now evident, and the Brahman presently
returning home, his wife told him of her rash act and then put an end to
her life. The Brahman, in his turn, disconsolate at the death of the
mongoose and his wife, first slew his child and then killed himself.