Once upon a time, a king and a queen lived in a castle. The queen was very beautiful, and she had a golden star on her forehead. Unfortunately, the queen died giving birth to her daughter, and the king promised on her deathbed that he would not marry anyone but a woman who also had a golden star on her forehead.  
So he handed the baby over to the nursemaids and went out into the world to find such a bride -- but since there was no one with a golden star on her forehead, he returned home with failure. When he arrived home, his beautiful daughter Lada ran to meet him, and he saw the golden star on her forehead. The king fell in love and decided to marry her. Lada was terrified, and she said she would only marry the king if he brought her three beautiful dresses -- the one sewn from the wings of a rose-beetle, the second dress to look like the sun, and the third a heaven-like dress.  
The king did this, so the wedding could not be avoided. Then the princess was visited in a dream by her deceased mother, who advised her to escape from the kingdom. The princess put on a coat made of mouse skin, covered her face with a veil, and left the kingdom. She took with her the beautiful dresses from her father.  
After some time she came to a city with a royal castle. She hid her beautiful dresses under a stone and asked a little fish in a well to guard them. Then she asked for a job in the castle. At first they did not want to accept such an ugly girl covered by dirt, but Lada eventually found work in the royal kitchen.  
Some time later a ball was held in the castle, and Lada asked the chief cook for permission to go. The cook agreed, and Lada went to the well, washed herself, and put on one of her beautiful dresses.  
No one at the ball recognized her, and Prince Hostivít himself fell in love with her. They danced together all the night long. After the ball, Lada run back to the well, took off her fine dress and put on the coat made of mouse skin.  
On two more evenings Lada went to the ball dressed in her beautiful dresses. At the third ball she gave Hostivít her ring, and he gave her his ring in return. Then Lada went back to the kitchen.  
The following day, Hostivít felt ill with love. The cook ordered Lada to make the prince's medicinal spices, and she dropped the ring from Hostivít into the cup. Finding the ring, the the prince wanted to talk with the girl who had prepared the medicinal spices.  
Lada claimed that she knew nothing about the ring. However, Hostivít did not give up, and he followed Lada to the well. There he watched as Lada took off the mouse fur and washed herself. Then he realized that this ugly girl was his beloved Lada.  
Lada and Hostivít got engaged, and they left his kingdom to ask Lada's father for his daughter's hand in marriage.  
In the meantime Lada's father had been visited by the queen, Lada's deceased mother, and she had rebuked him for his sinful love. Thus the king's heart turned to a father's love, and he blessed the young couple.