Once upon a time there was a cat who lived in a large farmhouse in
which there was a great number of mice. For many years the cat found no
difficulty in catching as many mice as she wanted to eat, and she lived a
very peaceful and pleasant life. But as time passed on she found that she
was growing old and infirm, and that it was becoming more and more
difficult for her to catch the same number of mice as before; so after
thinking very carefully what was the best thing to do, she one day called
all the mice together, and after promising not to touch them, she
addressed them as follows: 
 "Oh! mice," said she, "I have called you together in order to say
something to you. The fact is that I have led a very wicked life, and now,
in my old age, I repent of having caused you all so much inconvenience and
annoyance. So I am going for the future to turn over a new leaf. It is my
intention now to give myself up entirely to religious contemplation and no
longer to molest you, so henceforth you are at liberty to run about as
freely as you will without fear of me. All I ask of you is that twice
every day you should all file past me in procession and each one make an
obeisance as you pass me by, as a token of your gratitude to me for my
kindness." 
 When the mice heard this they were greatly pleased, for they thought
that now, at last, they would be free from all danger from their former
enemy, the cat. So they very thankfully promised to fulfill the cat's
conditions, and agreed that they would file past her and make a salaam
twice every day. 
 So when evening came the cat took her seat on a cushion at one end of
the room, and the mice all went by in single file, each one making a
profound salaam as it passed. 
 Now the cunning old cat had arranged this little plan very carefully
with an object of her own; for, as soon as the procession had all passed
by with the exception of one little mouse, she suddenly seized the last
mouse in her claws without anybody else noticing what had happened, and
devoured it at her leisure. And so twice every day, she seized the last
mouse of the series, and for a long time lived very comfortably without
any trouble at all in catching her mice, and without any of the mice
realizing what was happening. 
 Now it happened that amongst these mice there were two friends, whose
names were Rambé and Ambé, who were very much attached to
one another. Now these two were much cleverer and more cunning than most
of the others, and after a few days they noticed that the number of mice
in the house seemed to be decreasing very much, in spite of the fact that
the cat had promised not to kill any more. So they laid their heads
together and arranged a little plan for future processions. They agreed
that Rambé was always to walk at the very front of the procession
of the mice, and the Ambé was to bring up the rear, and that all
the time the procession was passing, Rambé was to call to
Ambé, and Ambé to answer Rambé at frequent intervals.
So next evening, when the procession started as usual, Rambé
marched along in front, and Ambé took up his position last of
all. 
 As soon as Rambé had passed the cushion where the cat was seated
and had made his salaam, he called out in a shrill voice, "Where are you,
Brother Ambé?" 
 "Here I am, Brother Rambé," squeaked the other from the rear of
the procession. 
 And so they went on calling out and answering one another until they
had all filed past the cat, who had not dared to touch Ambé as long
as his brother kept calling to him. 
 The cat was naturally very much annoyed at having to go hungry that
evening, and felt very cross all night. But she thought it was only an
accident which had brought the two friends, one in front and one in rear
of the procession, and she hoped to make up for her enforced abstinence by
finding a particularly fat mouse at the end of the procession next
morning. What, then, was her amazement and disgust when she found that on
the following morning the very same arrangement had been made, and that
Rambé called to Ambé, and Ambé answered Rambé
until all the mice had passed her by, and so, for the second time, she was
foiled of her meal. However, she disguised her feelings of anger and
decided to give the mice one more trial; so in the evening she took her
seat as usual on the cushion and waited for the mice to appear. 
 Meanwhile, Rambé and Ambé had warned the other mice to be
on the lookout, and to be ready to take flight the moment the cat showed
any appearance of anger. At the appointed time the procession started as
usual, and as soon as Rambé had passed the cat he squeaked out,
"Where are you, Brother Ambé?" 
 "Here I am, Brother Rambé," came the shrill voice from the
rear. 
 This was more than the cat could stand. She made a fierce leap right
into the middle of the mice, who, however, were thoroughly prepared for
her, and in an instant they scuttled off in every direction to their
holes. And before the cat had time to catch a single one, the room was
empty and not a sign of a mouse was to be seen anywhere. 
 After this the mice were very careful not to put any further trust in
the treacherous cat, who soon after died of starvation owing to her being
unable to procure any of her customary food. But Rambé and
Ambé lived for many years, and were held in high honor and esteem
by all the other mice in the community.