About a quarter of a mile from Soröe lies Pedersborg, and a little
farther on is the town of Lyng. Just between these towns is a hill called
Bröndhöi ( Spring-hill ), said to be inhabited by the
troll-people. 
 There goes a story that there was once among these troll-people of
Bröndhöi an old cross-grained curmudgeon of a troll, whom the
rest nick-named Knurremurre ( Rumble-grumble ), because he was
evermore the cause of noise and uproar within the hill. The Knurremurre
having discovered what he thought to be too great a degree of intimacy
between his young wife and a young troll of the society, took this in such
ill part, that he vowed vengeance, swearing he would have the life of the
young one. The latter, accordingly, thought it would be his best course to
be off out of the hill till better times; so, turning himself into a noble
tortoise-shell tom-cat, he one fine morning quitted his old residence, and
journeyed down to the neighboring town of Lyng, where he established
himself in the house of an honest poor man named Plat. 
 Here he lived for a long time comfortable and easy, with nothing to
annoy him, and was as happy as any tom-cat or troll crossed in love well
could be. He got every day plenty of milk and good grout to eat, and lay
the whole day long at his ease in a warm arm-chair behind the stove. 
 Plat happened one evening to come home rather late, and as he entered
the room the cat was sitting in his usual place, scraping meal-grout out
of a pot, and licking the pot itself carefully. "Harkye, dame," said Plat,
as he came in at the door, "till I tell you what happened to me on the
road. Just as I was coming past Bröndhöi, there came out a
troll, and he called out to me, and said, 
 Harkye Plat 
Tell your cat, 
That Knurremurre is dead. 
 The moment the cat heard these words, he tumbled the pot down on the
floor, sprang out of the chair, and stood up on his hind-legs. Then, as he
hurried out of the door, he cried out with exultation, "What! is
Knurremurre dead? Then I may go home as fast as I please." And so saying
he scampered off to the hill, to the amazement of honest Plat; and it is
likely lost no time in making his advances to the young widow.