In the Bargates, Leominster, are four small almshouses; these were founded by a widow named Hester Clark in 1736, and have been since rebuilt. Tradition says that the foundress spent all her money on these almshouses, and that she became in consequence so poor that she had to occupy one herself. That is why there is in the centre of the building a figure of a man, very quaint and rudely carved, holding an axe in his hand with these lines beneath:
 
He that gives away all before he is dead,  
Let 'em take this hatchet and knock him on ye head. 
  
The inscription on a stone on the front of the building contradicts the tradition, for it expressly states: "This Hospital was erected by Hester Clark and endowed at her death with 20 pounds per annum, to four decayed widows."  
This is a good example of the way in which a rhyme and folk-tale of great antiquity are as it were brought up to date and started on a new lease of life by being associated with some local hero or person of note ( see ante, Jack o' Kent ).  
Sir Laurence Gomme ( Folklore as an Historical Science , 66-78), has collected a number of parallel stories to this. He concludes that the tale has come down to us from a savage time when the mallet (in this case a hatchet) was actually used for killing off the aged. At Osnabrück, in front of a house (but sometimes at the city gate, as in several of the cities of Silesia and Saxony), there hangs a mallet with this inscription: 
 
Wer den kindern gibt das Brodt  
And selber dabei leidet Noth,  
Den schlagt mit dieser Kettle todt. 
 
Which Mr. Thoms has Englished thus: 
 
Who to his children gives his bread  
And thereby himself suffers need,  
With this mallet strike him dead.  
( Gentleman's Magazine , 1850, 250-2) 
 
Sir Laurence Gomme concludes that life of the folk-tale commenced when the use or formula of the mallet ceased to be a part of the social institutions. 
 
The old customs which we have detailed as the true origin of the mallet and its hideous use in killing the aged and infirm had died out, but the symbol of them remained. To explain the symbol a myth was created, which kept sufficiently near to the original idea as to retain evidence of its close connection with the descent of property. 
  
He goes on to give reasons for his belief that this story dates from a pre-Celtic period. It clearly takes us back to practices very remote from the reverence for the parents' authority, which might perhaps have been expected from descendants of the Aryan household. In most of the stories the father takes the place given to the charitable Hester Clark at Leominster.