Once upon a time there was a shoemaker who doted on pancakes. One day 
he asked his wife to bake him some for dinner. She replied that she was 
willing enough, but there was no pan in the house, and if he wished for 
pancakes, he had better go and borrow one from the neighbor. He complied, 
and at dinner he ate as rapidly as his wife could bake. When they had 
finished their meal, the shoemaker told his wife to carry the pan back to 
its owner. She refused, however, and declared that she did not like to 
carry back borrowed articles. As he insisted, they nearly came to blows, 
but finally they agreed to go to work, and the one who spoke first should 
return the pan to its owner.   
 The shoemaker seated himself on his platform, sewing and handling his 
shoes and his leather. His wife took her seat by her spinning wheel, and 
soon they were working as if life depended upon their handiness. Neither 
uttered a sound.   
 In a short time a squire who lived in the neighborhood, and who had 
given a pair of shoes to the shoemaker to repair, passed the house, bid 
his coachman stop, and sent his servant in, asking him to see whether his 
shoes were finished.   
 The servant walked in, greeted, and delivered his errand.   
 "Whew, whe-ew, whe-e-e-e-e-e-ew!" whistled the shoemaker, who sat on 
his three-legged chair, battling with the air, and sewing diligently.  
 
 As the servant could not draw a single word from him by way of answer, 
he turned to the woman, whose spinning wheel went so rapidly that sparks 
flew from it. "How is it," asked he, "that your husband does not answer 
when I talk to him?"   
 "Tralalalide-lide-raderade-lidelidelidelidelide-ralala!" sang the woman 
at the top of her voice, spinning with all her might and looking straight 
into his face.   
 The servant saw that there was nothing for him to do but return to his 
master in the carriage. The two people must have lost their senses!   
 When he reached the carriage, the squire asked him if the shoes were 
finished.   
 "I don't know," replied he. "The shoemaker and his wife must have lost 
their senses. The man whistles and the woman sings, and those are all the 
sounds they utter. They would not say as much as one plain word."   
 The squire alighted to see what had happened to the persons within. "If 
they pretend to make fun of their customers, I shall teach them manners," 
said he to himself. "Here they are, and here I come." So he opened the 
door and walked in.   
 The shoemaker whistled with all his might as soon as the squire opened 
his mouth to speak. The woman sang and shouted with all her might; but 
neither of them seemed to notice his question as to the shoes. At length 
he became vexed, seized his riding whip, and lifted it over the woman's 
shoulders. The shoemaker stole a glance at them, but said nothing.  
 A minute later the whip was dancing lustily across the shoulder blades 
of the woman, who at once struck up a new tune, but less merry than 
before. But this was too much for the shoemaker. He jumped from his seat, 
rushed at the squire, and bid him stop.   
 "Ah," exclaimed the squire. "You are not mute. I am pleased to know 
that your voice is in as good working order as your fingers seem to be."  
 
 "You spoke first," cried the woman to her husband, "and you must carry 
the pan back to our neighbor!"   
 Now they told the squire of their quarrel and agreement, and it greatly 
amused him when he learned that he had settled the dispute. I do not know 
whether or not his shoes were finished; but that cuts no figure. I saw, 
however, the shoemaker when he slouched through the back yard with the pan 
carefully concealed under his coat. It served him right that his wife won 
the wager. What do  you  think?