Once upon a time a fox lay peeping out of his hole, watching the road
that ran by at a little distance, and hoping to see something that might
amuse him, for he was feeling very dull and rather cross. For a long while
he watched in vain; everything seemed asleep, and not even a bird stirred
overhead. The fox grew crosser than ever, and he was just turning away in
disgust from his place when he heard the sound of feet coming over the
snow. 
 He crouched eagerly down at the edge of the road and said to himself,
"I wonder what would happen if I were to pretend to be dead! This is a man
driving a reindeer sledge; I know the tinkling of the harness. And at any
rate I shall have an adventure, and that is always something!" 
 So he stretched himself out by the side of the road, carefully choosing
a spot where the driver could not help seeing him, yet where the reindeer
would not tread on him; and all fell out just as he had expected. The
sledge driver pulled up sharply, as his eyes lighted on the beautiful
animal lying stiffly beside him, and jumping out he threw the fox into the
bottom of the sledge, where the goods he was carrying were bound tightly
together by ropes. The fox did not move a muscle though his bones were
sore from the fall, and the driver got back to his seat again and drove on
merrily. 
 But before they had gone very far, the fox, who was near the edge,
contrived to slip over, and when the Laplander saw him stretched out on
the snow he pulled up his reindeer and put the fox into one of the other
sledges that was fastened behind, for it was market day at the nearest
town, and the man had much to sell. 
 They drove on a little further, when some noise in the forest made the
man turn his head, just in time to see the fox fall with a heavy thump
onto the frozen snow. 
 "That beast is bewitched!" he said to himself, and then he threw the
fox into the last sledge of all, which had a cargo of fishes. This was
exactly what the cunning creature wanted, and he wriggled gently to the
front and bit the cord which tied the sledge to the one before it so that
it remained standing in the middle of the road. 
 Now there were so many sledges that the Lapp did not notice for a long
while that one was missing. Indeed, he would have entered the town without
knowing if snow had not suddenly begun to fall. Then he got down to secure
more firmly the cloths that kept his goods dry, and going to the end of
the long row, discovered that the sledge containing the fish and the fox
was missing. He quickly unharnessed one of his reindeer and rode back
along the way he had come, to find the sledge standing safe in the middle
of the road; but as the fox had bitten off the cord close to the noose
there was no means of moving it away. 
 The fox meanwhile was enjoying himself mightily. As soon as he had
loosened the sledge, he had taken his favorite fish from among the piles
neatly arranged for sale, and had trotted off to the forest with it in his
mouth.