There was once a king who, during the day, used to sit on his throne
and dispense justice, but who at night was accustomed to disguise himself
and to wander about the streets of his city looking for adventures. 
 One evening he was passing by a certain garden when he observed four
young girls sitting under a tree, and conversing together in earnest
tones. Curious to overhear the subject of their discourse, he stopped to
listen. 
 One of the girls said, "I think of all tastes the pleasantest in the
world is the taste of telling lies." 
 This remark so interested the king that the next day he summoned the
girl to his palace. 
 "Tell me," he said, "what you and your companions talked about under
the tree last night." 
 "It was not about the king," answered she. 
 "Nevertheless," asked he, "what was it you said?" 
 "Those who tell lies, said I, must tell them because they find the
practice agreeable," replied she. 
 "Whose daughter are you?" inquired the king. 
 "I am the daughter of a farmer," answered the girl. 
 "And what made you think there was pleasure in telling lies?" asked the
king. 
 The girl answered saucily, "Oh, you yourself will tell lies
someday!" 
 "How?" said the king. "What can you mean?" 
 The girl answered, "If you will give me two lacs of rupees, and six
months to consider, I will promise to prove my words." 
 So the king gave the girl the sum of money she asked for, and agreed to
her conditions. 
 After six months he called her to his presence again, and reminded her
of her promise. Now, in the interval the girl had built a fine palace far
away in the forest, upon which she had expended the wealth which the king
had given to her. It was beautifully adorned with carvings and paintings,
and furnished with silk and satin. So she now said to the king, "Come with
me, and you shall see God." 
 Taking with him two of his ministers, the king went out, and by the
evening they all arrived at the palace. 
 "This palace is the abode of God," said the girl. "But he will reveal
himself only to one person at a time, and he will not reveal himself even
to him unless he was born in lawful wedlock. Therefore, while the rest
remain without, let each of you enter in order." 
 "Be it so," said the king. "But let my ministers precede me. I shall go
in last." 
 So the first minister passed through the door and at once found himself
in a noble room, and as he looked around he said to himself, "Who knows
whether I shall be permitted to see God or not? I may be a bastard. And
yet this place, so spacious and so beautiful, is a fitting dwelling place
even for the deity." With all his looking and straining, however, he quite
failed to see God anywhere. Then said he to himself, "If now I go out and
declare that I have not seen God, the king and the other minister will
throw it in my teeth that I am base-born. I have only one course open,
therefore, which is to say that I have seen him." 
 So he went out, and when the king asked, "Have you seen God?" he
answered at once, "Of course I have seen God." 
 "But have you really seen him?" continued the king. 
 "Really and truly," answered the minister. 
 "And what did he say to you?" inquired the king further. 
 "God commanded me not to divulge his words," readily answered the
minister. 
 Then said the king to the other minister, "Now you go in." 
 The second minister lost no time in obeying his master's order,
thinking in his heart as he crossed the threshold, "I wonder if I am
base-born?" Finding himself in the midst of the magnificent chamber, he
gazed about him on all sides, but failed to see God. Then said he to
himself, "It is very possible I am base-born, for no God can I see. But it
would be a lasting disgrace that I should admit it. I had better make out
that I also have seen God." 
 Accordingly, he returned to the king, who said to him, "Well, have you
seen God?" when the minister asserted that he had not only seen him, but
that he had spoken with him too. 
 It was now the turn of the king, and he entered the room confident that
he would be similarly favored. But he gazed around in dismay, perceiving
no sign of anything which could even represent the Almighty. Then began he
to think to himself, "This God, wherever he is, has been seen by both my
ministers, and it cannot be denied, therefore, that their birthright is
clear. Is it possible that I, the king, am a bastard, seeing that no God
appears to me? The very thought is confusion, and necessity will compel me
to assert that I have seen him too." 
 Having formed this resolution, the king stepped out and joined the rest
of his party. 
 "And now, O king," asked the cunning girl, "have you also seen
God?" 
 "Yes," answered he with assurance, "I have seen God." 
 "Really?" asked she again. 
 "Certainly," asserted the king. 
 Three times the girl asked the same question, and three times the king
unblushingly lied. Then said the girl, "O king, have you never a
conscience? How could you possibly see God, seeing that God is a
spirit?" 
 Hearing this reproof, the king recalled to mind the saying of the girl
that one day he would lie too, and, with a laugh, he confessed that he had
not seen God at all. The two ministers, beginning to feel alarmed,
confessed the truth as well. Then said the girl, "O king, we poor people
may tell lies occasionally to save our lives, but what had you to fear?
Telling lies, therefore, for many has its own attractions, and to them at
least the taste of lying is sweet." 
 Far from being offended at the stratagem which the girl had practiced
on him, the king was so struck with her ingenuity and assurance that he
married her forthwith, and in a short time she became his confidential
adviser in all his affairs, public as well as private. Thus this simple
girl came to great honor and renown, and so much did she grow in wisdom
that her fame spread through many lands.