There lived a king and queen in their realm, and a carl and his old wife 
in their cottage.   
Once the carl and his old wife bought for themselves a barrel full of 
butter, which they intended to have for their household use during the 
winter, but now they were at a loss where to hide the barrel, that nobody 
should steal out of it. At last they agreed upon having it kept at the 
king's palace. They readily got the king to undertake the guarding of 
their tub, but its owner put it into its right place, and covered it as 
they thought fit.   
Now the autumn approached, and the old wife began to feel eager for some 
of the butter, and contrived at once a plan for getting her longing 
satisfied. One day, in fine weather, she was up early in the morning, and 
came in to her carl, saying she was called to the king's palace, to hold a 
child at baptism, wherefore she must go there. The carl said it was a 
matter of course. Now the old wife got ready in the greatest hurry and 
went to the king's palace. When she came there she said she should fetch a 
tiny slice of butter from the barrel. This everyone believed to be true, 
and she was let in to where the tub stood. Then the old woman took a great 
pat from the brim of the tub. After that she went home.   
Then asked the carl what had been the name of the child at the king's.   
The old woman answered, " Brimmy is hight [named] the well-shaped girl." 
  
When the old woman had finished what she had first taken of the butter, 
she said one morning to her husband, "Eh! I am called yet once again to 
the king's."   
"Well, go then," said the carl.   
The old woman went away, and said at the king's as formerly, that she 
should fetch butter from the barrel. And this time, the old dame took 
butter away down to the middle of the tub.   
When she came home, the carl asked what was the name of the child.   
She answered, "Middle, is called the little girl."   
When the old wife had finished this provision of butter, she said to the 
old man : " Yet, once more, am I called to the king's, to hold a child at 
baptism."   
"Go then," quoth the carl.   
The old wife went, and coming to the king's palace, said she came for 
butter. Now she took so much, that she could see the corner which the 
staves made with the bottom of the tub.   
When she came home, the carl asked her what was the name of the child. She 
answered. "Logg [woodblock] is hight the ugly girl."   
Now time passed till the old wife was, once more, in need of butter. Then 
she said to the old man, "I am called for, once more, at the king's."   
"Go then," said the old man. The old woman went, and said, as formerly, 
that she had come for butter. This time, she took all that was left in the 
barrel. When she came home, the carl asked what was the name of the child. 
  
"Bottom is hight the stubby swain," said the old woman.   
Time passed, till the later months of winter came on. Then the household 
provisions of the old man and woman began to be rather scarce. The old man 
said to his old wife, that it would be best to fetch the butter tub from 
the king's palace. To this, the old woman agreed. They came there and 
asked for their barrel. It was given to them, and they saw that the 
covering and everything about the barrel was quite in order.   
They rolled the barrel home, into the cottage. Now the carl opened the 
barrel, and lo! it was quite empty. He was rather startled at this, and 
asked his wife if she could tell the cause of it. She made believe to be 
no less astonished, and could find no reason for the trick they had been 
played.   
But, at the same moment, the old wife saw a big fly, which had got into 
the open barrel, and she said, "Ah! There comes the wretched thief. Look 
here. This hateful fly has, doubtless, eaten all our butter from the tub." 
  
This, the old man thought must be true, and ran off for the big hammer, 
with which he used to beat his dried fish, and would break the skull of 
the fly. He shut the door of the cottage, that the fly should not get out, 
and now chased the fly all over the place, knocking and beating at it, but 
never hitting save his own furniture and household chattels, which he 
broke to pieces. At last, the old man, being tired, sat down in fury and 
despair.   
But then the fly came and sat on his nose. Then the carl begged his wife 
to kill the fly, and said, "Make haste, while it sits on the nose!" (which 
since has passed into a common saying). The old woman lifted up, with all 
her might, the hammer, and thumped it on the old man's nose, and broke his 
skull so well that he was dead on the spot; but the fly escaped with 
unbroken skull. It is unscathed yet. But the old woman is still wailing 
over her carl.