About a hundred years ago [in the eighteenth century] a noblewoman from
Oberland was engaged to marry a very handsome officer. Shortly before
their marriage he was called to the field of battle, where he remained.
The noblewoman was so beside herself that in her despair she cursed
God. 
 In the night the devil came to her in the form of her beloved, and he
called upon her to pledge her soul to him. In return he would accompany
her, in this form, as long as she lived. Further, he would give her great
magic power. She agreed to this, and the devil remained with her. He was
not exactly invisible, but still secret, and no one knew about him. 
 After a while he advised her to enter a convent, which she did. She
would now lock herself in her cell with her beloved, while her phantom
form was praying in the church. She gained the reputation of great piety,
and soon afterward became the abbess. 
 From this time forward miraculous events began to occur in the convent.
Most prominently, from time to time several nuns were attacked with
long-lasting and unknown ailments, which she was able to cure through her
apparent intercession. Thus her holy reputation grew ever greater. 
 The first suspicion came from several children who often visited the
convent. The abbess, who loved children, would show them magic tricks
whenever she was alone with them. She told others about this, although she
had strictly forbidden them to do so. Above all, the abbess would ask the
children if they would like her to make some little mice for them,
whereupon the table would immediately be crawling with small, tame
mice. 
 The children were too young for one to give much credibility to their
talk, but once a young nun, on her way to church, passed by the abbess's
cell and heard the abbess whispering lightly with a man's voice. Curious,
she looked through the keyhole and saw the abbess and an officer. But when
she entered the church she saw the abbess's form praying there before the
altar, and she feinted with fright. Afterward she reported what she had
seen. 
 The abbess was arrested in her bed that night. She very forward, saying
that she would get up and go along with them if they would just reach her
stick to her. Someone standing there threw the first stick to her that
came to hand, but she refused it, asking for a specific other one. They
took note of this and refused to give it to her, in spite of her cunning
pretenses. Even after she was put in jail, she continued to try to get
hold of the stick through all kinds of tricks, but to no avail. 
 She finally lost her daring, and shortly before she was executed, she
confessed. If she had gotten hold of the stick, no power on earth would
have been able to restrain her. She was finally burned to death, after
having confessed many things.