Nicostratus, a wealthy patrician, married Lydia, a woman of great
distinction and unsurpassed beauty. He was well advanced in years, while
she was still a paragon of youth and vitality. Consequently, to state the
matter delicately, their marriage did not leave the young wife entirely
satisfied. Thus, it is quite understandable that Lydia found herself
paying ever more attention to one of her husband's servants, Pyrrhus by
name, who was elegant, handsome, young, and energetic. He was attracted to
her as well, and gladly would have accepted her invitations to love, but
the old man gave them no opportunity. What he lacked in vigor he made up
with jealousy and perseverance, rarely leaving his beautiful young wife
alone. 
 Their unrequited passion aglow, Lydia and Pyrrhus devised a daring
scheme through which, even in the master's presence, they might satisfy
their longing for one another. Accordingly, one day when the three were
walking in the garden, as they often did, Lydia requested a pear from a
certain tree. Pyrrhus climbed after the fruit, but once in the tree, he
called to his master, "Have you no shame, making love like that in broad
daylight?" 
 The master demanded an explanation for the strange remark, and Pyrrhus
concluded that the pear tree was enchanted, giving the impression of
unreal happenings below. To test the theory, he asked his master to climb
the tree, and see if he too would behold impossible things below. His
curiosity piqued, Nicostratus mustered enough strength to climb onto one
of the pear tree's lower branches. Looking down, what did he behold but
Pyrrhus and Lydia making fervent love. From his precarious perch, he
shouted curses, threats, and insults at them. but they -- engaged with
other pursuits -- quite ignored him. 
 Nicostratus climbed down from the tree, only to find Pyrrhus and Lydia
seated discretely on a garden bench. Their innocent demeanor convinced him
that nothing unseemly had happened. Fearing that only a bedeviled tree
could be responsible for the vile images that he had perceived, he sent
for an ax and had it cut down immediately. 
 From that time forth Nicostratus relaxed his watchful vigil over his
young wife, and thus Pyrrhus and Lydia were able to pluck the fruits of
their love at regular intervals, even without the help of their enchanted
pear tree.