Long, long ago a farmer named Lenine lived in Boscean. He had but one
son, Frank Lenine, who was indulged into waywardness by both his parents.
In addition to the farm servants, there was one, a young girl, Nancy
Trenoweth, who especially assisted Mrs. Lenine in all the various duties
of a small farmhouse. 
 Nancy Trenoweth was very pretty, and although perfectly uneducated, in
the sense in which we now employ the term education, she possessed many
native graces, and she had acquired much knowledge, really useful to one
whose aspirations would probably never rise higher than to be mistress of
a farm of a few acres. 
 Frank Lenine and Nancy were thrown as much together as if they had been
brother and sister. Although it was evident to all the parish that Frank
and Nancy were seriously devoted to each other, the young man's parents
were blind to it, and were taken by surprise when one day Frank asked his
father and mother to consent to his marrying Nancy. The old man felt it
would be a degradation for a Lenine to marry a Trenoweth, and, in the most
unreasoning manner, he resolved it should never be. 
 The first act was to send Nancy home to Alsia Mill, where her parents
resided; the next was an imperious command to his son never again to see
the girl. The commands of the old are generally powerless upon the young
where the affairs of the heart are concerned. So were they upon Frank. He,
who was rarely seen of an evening beyond the garden of his father's
cottage, was now as constantly absent from his home. 
 Rarely an evening passed that did not find Nancy and Frank together in
some retired nook. The Holy Well was a favorite meeting place, and here
the most solemn vows were made. Locks of hair were exchanged; a wedding
ring, taken from the finger of a corpse, was broken, when they vowed that
they would be united either dead or alive; and they even climbed at night
the granite pile at Treryn, and swore by the Logan Rock the same strong
vow. 
 Time passed onward thus unhappily, and, as the result of the endeavors
to quench out the passion by force, it grew stronger under the repressing
power, and, like imprisoned steam, eventually burst through all restraint.
Nancy's parents discovered at length that moonlight meetings between two
untrained, impulsive youths, had a natural result, and they were now
doubly earnest in their endeavors to compel Frank to marry their
daughter. 
 The elder Lenine could not be brought to consent to this, and he firmly
resolved to remove his son entirely from what he considered the hateful
influences of the Trenoweths. He resolved to send him away to sea, hoping
thus to wean him from this love madness. Frank, poor fellow, with the best
intentions, was not capable of any sustained effort, and consequently he
at length succumbed to his father; and, to escape his persecution, he
entered a ship bound for India, and bade adieu to his native land. 
 Frank could not write, and this happened in days when letters could be
forwarded only with extreme difficulty, consequently Nancy never heard
from her lover. 
 A baby had been born into a troublesome world, and the infant became a
real solace to the young mother. Young Nancy lived for her child, and on
the memory of its father. She felt that no distance could separate their
souls, that no time could be long enough to destroy the bond between
them. 
 The winter was coming on, and nearly three years had passed away since
Frank Lenine left his country. It was Allhallows Eve, and two of Nancy's
companions persuaded her--no very difficult task--to go with them and sow
hemp seed. 
 At midnight the three maidens stole out unperceived into Kimyall town
place to perform their incantation. Nancy was the first to sow, the others
being less bold than she. 
 Boldly she advanced, saying, as she scattered the seed: 
 Hemp seed I sow thee, 
Hemp seed grow thee; 
And he who will my true love be, 
Come after me 
And shaw thee. 
 This was repeated three times, when looking back over her left
shoulder, she saw Lenine; but he looked so angry that she shrieked with
fear, and broke the spell. One of the other girls, however, resolved now
to make trial of the spell, and the result of her labors was the vision of
a white coffin. Fear now fell on all, and they went home sorrowful, to
spend each one a sleepless night. 
 November came with its storms, and during one terrific night a large
vessel was thrown upon the rocks in Bernowhall Cliff, and, beaten by the
impetuous waves, she was soon in pieces. Amongst the bodies of the crew
washed ashore, nearly all of whom had perished, was Frank Lenine. He was
not dead when found, but the only words he lived to speak were begging the
people to send for Nancy Trenoweth, that he might make her his wife before
he died. 
 Rapidly sinking, Frank was borne by his friends on a litter to Boscean,
but he died as he reached the town place. His parents, overwhelmed in
their own sorrows, thought nothing of Nancy, and without her knowing that
Lenine had returned, the poor fellow was laid in his last bed, in Burian
Churchyard. 
 On the night of the funeral, Nancy went, as was her custom, to lock the
door of the house, and as was her custom too, she looked out into the
night. At this instant a horseman rode up in hot haste, called her by
name, and hailed her in a voice that made her blood boil. 
 The voice was the voice of Lenine. She could never forget that; and the
horse she now saw was her sweetheart's favorite colt, on which he had
often ridden at night to Alsia. The rider was imperfectly seen; but he
looked very sorrowful, and deadly pale, still Nancy knew him to be Frank
Lenine. 
 He told her that he had just arrived home, and that the first moment he
was at liberty he had taken horse to fetch his loved one, and to make her
his bride. Nancy's excitement was so great, that she was easily persuaded
to spring on the horse behind him, that they might reach his home before
the morning. 
 When she took Lenine's hand a cold shiver passed through her, and as
she grasped his waist to secure herself in her seat, her arm became as
stiff as ice. She lost all power of speech, and suffered deep fear, yet
she know not why. The moon had arisen, and now burst out in a full flood
of light, through the heavy clouds which had obscured it. The horse
pursued its journey with great rapidity, and whenever in weariness it
slackened its speed, the peculiar voice of the rider aroused its drooping
energies. Beyond this no word was spoken since Nancy had mounted behind
her lover. They now came to Trove Bottom, where there was no bridge at
that time; they dashed into the river. The moon shone full in their faces.
Nancy looked into the stream, and saw that the rider was in a shroud and
other grave clothes. She now knew that she was being carried away by a
spirit, yet she had no power to save herself; indeed, the inclination to
do so did not exist. 
 On went the horse at a furious pace, until they came to the
blacksmith's shop near Burian Church-town, when she knew by the light from
the forge fire thrown across the road that the smith was still at his
labors. She now recovered speech. "Save me! Save me! Save me!" she cried
with all her might. The smith sprang from the door of the smithy, with a
red-hot iron in his hand, and as the horse rushed by, caught the woman's
dress and pulled her to the ground. The spirit, however, also seized
Nancy's dress in one hand, and his grasp was like that of a vice. The
horse passed like the wind, and Nancy and the smith were pulled down as
far as the old Almshouses, near the churchyard. Here the horse for a
moment stopped. The smith seized that moment, and with his hot iron burned
off the dress from the rider's hand, thus saving Nancy, more dead than
alive; while the rider passed over the wall of the churchyard, and
vanished on the grave in which Lenine had been laid but a few hours
before. 
 The smith took Nancy into his shop, and he soon aroused some of his
neighbors, who took the poor girl back to Alsia. Her parents laid her on
her bed. She spoke no word, but to ask for her child, to request her
mother to give up her child to Lenine's parents, and her desire to
be buried in his grave. Before the morning light fell on the world, Nancy
had breathed her last breath. 
 A horse was seen that night to pass through the Church-town like a ball
from a musket, and in the morning Lenine's colt was found dead in
Bernowhall Cliff, covered with foam, its eyes forced from its head, and
its swollen tongue hanging out of its mouth. On Lenine's grave was found
the piece of Nancy's dress which was left in the spirit's hand when the
smith burnt her from his grasp. 
 It is said that one or two of the sailors who survived the wreck
related after the funeral, how, on the 30th of October, at night, Lenine
was like one mad; they could scarcely keep him in the ship. He seemed more
asleep than awake, and, after great excitement, he fell as if dead upon
the deck, and lay so for hours. When he came to himself, he told them that
he had been taken to the village of Kimyall, and that if he ever married
the woman who had cast the spell, he would make her suffer the longest day
she had to live for drawing his soul out of his body. 
 Poor Nancy was buried in Lenine's grave, and her companion in sowing
hemp seed, who saw the white coffin, slept beside her within the year.