Mosaku and his apprentice Minokichi journeyed to a forest, some little
distance from their village. It was a bitterly cold night when they neared
their destination, and saw in front of them a cold sweep of water. They
desired to cross this river, but the ferryman had gone away, leaving his
boat on the other side of the water, and as the weather was too inclement
to admit of swimming across the river they were glad to take shelter in
the ferryman's little hut.
 Mosaku fell asleep almost immediately he entered this humble but
welcome shelter. Minokichi, however, lay awake for a long time listening
to the cry of the wind and the hiss of the snow as it was blown against
the door.
 Minokichi at last fell asleep, to be soon awakened by a shower of snow
falling across his face. He found that the door had been blown open, and
that standing in the room was a fair woman in dazzlingly white garments.
For a moment she stood thus; then she bent over Mosaku, her breath coming
forth like white smoke. After bending thus over the old man for a minute
or two she turned to Minokichi and hovered over him. He tried to cry out,
for the breath of this woman was like a freezing blast of wind. She told
him that she had intended to treat him as she had done the old man at his
side, but forbore on account of his youth and beauty. Threatening
Minokichi with instant death if he dared to mention to anyone what he had
seen, she suddenly vanished.
 Then Minokichi called out to his beloved master, "Mosaku, Mosaku, wake!
Something very terrible has happened!" But there was no reply. He touched
the hand of his master in the dark, and found it was like a piece of ice.
Mosaku was dead!
 During the next winter, while Minokichi was returning home, he chanced
to meet a pretty girl by the name of Yuki. She informed him that she was
going to Yedo, where she desired to find a situation as a servant.
Minokichi was charmed with this maiden, and he went so far as to ask if
she were betrothed, and hearing that she was not, he took her to his own
home, and in due time married her.
 Yuki presented her husband with ten fine and handsome children, fairer
of skin than average. When Minokichi's mother died, her last words were in
praise of Yuki, and her eulogy was echoed by many of the country folk in
the district.
 One night, while Yuki was sewing, the light of a paper lamp shining
upon her face, Minokichi recalled the extraordinary experience he had had
in the ferryman's hut.
 "Yuki," said he, "you remind me so much of a beautiful white woman I
saw when I was eighteen years old. She killed my master with her ice-cold
breath. I am sure she was some strange spirit, and yet tonight she seems
to resemble you."
 Yuki flung down her sewing. There was a horrible smile on her face as
she bent close to her husband and shrieked, "It was I, Yuki-Onna, who came
to you then, and silently killed your master! Oh, faithless wretch, you
have broken your promise to keep the matter secret, and if it were not for
our sleeping children I would kill you now! Remember, if they have aught
to complain of at your hands I shall hear, I shall know, and on a night
when the snow falls I  will  kill you!"
 Then Yuki-Onna, the Lady of the Snow, changed into a white mist, and,
shrieking and shuddering, passed through the smoke-hole, never to return
again.