of the Sea 
  
There was once an honest old farmer who had three daughters. His farm ran 
down to the shores of a deep lake. One day as he leaned over the water to 
take a drink, wicked old Wetehinen reached up from the bottom of the lake 
and clutched him by the beard.   
"Ouch! Ouch!" the farmer cried. "Let me go!"   
Wetehinen only held on more tightly. "Yes, I'll let you go," he said, "but 
only on this condition: that you give me one of your daughters for wife!" 
  
"Give you one of my daughters? Never!"   
"Very well, then I'll never let go!" wicked old Wetehinen declared and 
with that he began jerking at the beard as if it were a bell rope.   
"Wait! Wait!" the fanner spluttered. Now he didn't want to give one of his 
daughters to wicked old Wetehinen -- of course not! But at the same time 
he was in Wetehinen's power and he realized that if he didn't do what the 
old reprobate demanded he might lose his life and so leave all three of 
his daughters orphans. Perhaps for the good of all he had better sacrifice 
one of them.   
"All right," he said, "let me go and I'll send you my oldest daughter. I 
promise."   
So Wetehinen let go his beard and the farmer scrambled to his feet and 
hurried home.   
"My dear," he said to his oldest daughter, "I left a bit of the harness 
down at the lake. Like a good girl will you run down and get it for me." 
  
The eldest daughter went at once and when she reached the water's edge, 
old Wetehinen reached up and caught her about the waist and carried her 
down to the bottom of the lake where he lived in a big house.   
At first he was kind to her. He made her mistress of the house and gave 
her the keys to all the rooms and closets. He went very carefully over the 
keys and pointing to one he said, "That key you must never use for it 
opens the door to a room which I forbid you to enter."   
The eldest daughter began keeping house for old Wetehinen and spent her 
time cooking and cleaning and spinning much as she used to at home with 
her father. The days went by and she grew familiar with the house and 
began to know what was in every room and every closet.   
At first she felt no temptation to open the forbidden door. If old 
Wetehinen wanted to have a secret room, well and good. But why in the 
world had he given her the key if he really didn't want her to open the 
door? The more she thought about it the more she wondered. Every time she 
passed the room she stopped a moment and stared at the door. It looked 
just exactly like the doors that led into all the other rooms.   
"I wonder why he doesn't want me to open just that door?" she kept asking 
herself.   
Finally one day when old Wetehinen was away she thought, "I don't believe 
it would matter if I opened that door just a little crack and peeped in 
once! No one would know the difference!"   
For a few moments she hesitated, then mustered up courage enough to turn 
the key in the forbidden lock and throw open the door. The room was a 
storeroom with boxes and chests and old jars piled up around the wall. 
That was unexciting enough, but in the middle of the floor was something 
that made her start when she saw what it was. It was blood -- that's what 
it was, a pool of dark red blood! She was about to slam the door shut when 
she saw something else that made her pause. This was a lovely shining ring 
that lay in the midst of the pool.   
"Oh!" she thought to herself, "what a beautiful ring! If I had it I'd wear 
it on my finger!"   
The longer she looked at it, the more she wanted it. "If I'm very 
careful," she said, "I know I could reach over and pick it up without 
touching the blood."   
She tiptoed cautiously into the room, wrapped her skirts tightly about her 
legs, knelt down on the floor, and stretched her arm over the pool. She 
picked up the ring very carefully but even so she got a few drops of blood 
on her fingers.   
"No matter!" she thought. "I can wash that off! And see the lovely ring!" 
  
But later, after she had the door again locked, when she tried to wash the 
blood off, she found she couldn't. She tried soap, she tried sand, she 
tried everything she could think of, but without success.   
"I don't care!" she thought to herself. "If Wetehinen sees the blood, I'll 
just tell him I cut my finger by accident."   
So when Wetehinen came home, she hid the ring and pretended nothing was 
the matter.   
After supper Wetehinen put his head in her lap and said, "Now, my dear, 
scratch my head and make me drowsy for bed."   
She began scratching his head as she had many nights before but, at the 
first touch of her fingers, he cried out, "Stop! You're burning my ear! 
There must be some blood on your fingers! Let me see!"   
He reached up and caught her hand and, when he saw the blood stains, he 
flew into a towering rage. "I thought so! You've been in the forbidden 
room!" He jumped up and without allowing her time to say a word he just 
cut off her head then and there with no more concern than if she had been 
a mosquito! After that he took the body and the severed head and threw 
them into the forbidden room and locked the door.   
"Now then," he growled, " she  won't disobey me again!"   
This was all very well but now he had no one to keep house for him and 
cook and scratch his head in the evening and soon he decided he'd have to 
get another wife. He remembered that the farmer had two more daughters, so 
he thought to himself that now he'd marry the second sister.   
He waited his chance and one day when the farmer was out in his boat 
fishing, old Wetehinen came up from the bottom of the lake and clutched 
the boat. When the poor old farmer tried to row back to shore he couldn't 
make the boat move an inch. He worked and worked at the oars and wicked 
old Wetehinen let him struggle until he was exhausted.   
Then he put his head up out of the water and over the side of the boat and 
as though nothing were the matter he said, "Hullo!"   
"Oh!" the farmer cried, wishing he were safe on shore, "it's you, is it? I 
wondered what was holding my boat."   
"Yes," wicked old Wetehinen said, "it's me and I'm going to hold your boat 
right here on this spot until you promise to give me another of your 
daughters."   
What could the farmer do? He pleaded with Wetehinen but Wetehinen was firm 
and the upshot was that before the farmer again walked dry land he had 
promised Wetehinen his second daughter.   
Well, when he got home, he pretended he had forgotten his ax in the boat 
and sent his second daughter down to the lake to get it. Wicked old 
Wetehinen caught her as he had caught her sister and carried her home with 
him to his house at the bottom of the lake.   
Wetehinen treated the second sister just exactly as he had the first, 
making her mistress of the house and telling her she might use every key 
but one. Like her sister she, too, after a time gave way to the temptation 
of looking into the forbidden room and when she saw the shining ring lying 
in the pool of blood of course she wanted it and of course when she 
reached to get it she dabbled her fingers in the blood. So that was the 
end of her, too, for wicked old Wetehinen when he saw the blood stains 
just cut her head right off and threw her body and the severed head into 
the forbidden room beside the body and head of her sister and locked the 
door.   
Time went by and the farmer was living happily with his youngest daughter 
when one day while he was out chopping wood he found a pair of fine birch 
bark brogues. He put them on and instantly found himself, walking away 
from the woods and down to the lake. He tried to stop but he couldn't. He 
tried to walk in another direction but the brogues carried him straight 
down to the water's edge and out into the lake until he was in waist deep. 
  
Then he heard a gruff voice saying, "Hullo, there! What are you doing with 
my brogues?"   
Of course it was wicked old Wetehinen who had played that trick to get the 
farmer into his power again.   
"What do you want this time?" the poor farmer cried.   
"I want your youngest daughter," Wetehinen said.   
"What! My youngest daughter!"   
"Yes."   
"I won't give her up!" the farmer declared. "I don't care what you do to 
me. I won't give her up!"   
"Oh, very well!" Wetehinen said, and immediately the brogues which had 
been standing still while they talked started walking again. They carried 
the farmer out into the lake farther and farther until the water was up to 
his chin.   
"Wait -- wait a minute!" he cried.   
The brogues stopped walking and Wetehinen said, "Well, do you promise to 
give her to me?"   
"No!" the farmer began. "She's my last daughter and -- "   
Before he could say more, the brogues walked on and the water rose to his 
nose.   
In desperation he threw up his hands and shouted, "I promise! I promise!" 
  
So when he got home that day he said to his youngest daughter whose name 
was Lisa, "Lisa, my dear, I forgot my brogues at the lake. Like a good 
girl won't you run and get them for me?"   
So Lisa went to the lake and Wetehinen of course caught her and carried 
her down to his house as he had her two sisters. Then the same old story 
was repeated. Wetehinen made Lisa mistress of the house and gave her keys 
to all the doors and closets with the same prohibition against opening the 
door of the forbidden room.   
"If I am mistress of the house," Lisa said to herself, "why should I not 
unlock every door?"   
She waited until one day when Wetehinen was away from home, then went 
boldly to the forbidden room, fitted the key in the lock, and flung open 
the door.   
There lay her two poor sisters with their heads cut off. There in the pool 
of blood sparkled the lovely ring, but Lisa paid no heed to it.   
"Wicked old Wetehinen!" Lisa cried. "I suppose he thinks that ring will 
tempt me, but nothing will tempt me to touch that awful blood!"   
Then she rummaged about, opening boxes and chests, and turning things 
over. In a dark corner she found two pitchers, one marked  Water of 
Life , the other  Water of Death .   
"Ha! This is what I want!" she cried, taking the pitcher of the Water of 
Life. She set the severed heads of her sisters in place and then with the 
magic water brought them back to life. She used up all the  Water of 
Life , so she filled the pitcher marked  Water of Life  with the 
water from the other pitcher, the  Water of Death . She hid her 
sisters each in a big wooden chest, she shut and locked the door of the 
forbidden room, and Wetehinen when he came home found her working at her 
spinning wheel as though nothing unusual had happened.   
After supper Wetehinen said, "Now scratch my head and make me drowsy for 
bed."   
So Lisa scratched his wicked old head and she did it so well that he 
grunted with satisfaction.   
"Uh! Uh!" he said. "That's good! Now just behind my right ear! That's it! 
That's it! You're a good girl, you are! You're not like some of them who 
do what they're told not to do! Now behind the other ear! Oh, that's fine! 
Yes, you're a good girl, and if there's anything you want me to do just 
tell me what it is."   
"I want to send a chest of things to my poor old father," Lisa said. "Just 
a lot of little nothings -- odds and ends that I've picked up about the 
house. I'd be ashamed to have you open the chest and see them. I do wish 
you'd carry the chest ashore tomorrow and leave it where my father will 
find it."   
"All right, I will," Wetehinen promised. He was true to his word. The next 
morning he hoisted one of the chests on his shoulder, the one that had in 
it the eldest sister. He trudged off with it, and tossed it up on shore at 
a place where he was sure the farmer would find it.   
Lisa then wheedled him into carrying up the second chest that had in it 
the second sister. This time Wetehinen wasn't so good-natured.   
"I don't know what she can always be sending her father!" he grumbled. "If 
she sends another chest I'll have to look inside and see."   
Now Lisa, when the second sister was safely delivered, began to plan her 
own escape. She pulled out another empty chest and then one evening after 
she had succeeded in making old Wetehinen comfortable and drowsy she 
begged him to carry this also to her father. He grumbled and protested but 
finally promised.   
"And you won't look inside, will you? Promise me you won't!" Lisa begged. 
  
Wetehinen said he wouldn't, but he intended to just the same.   
Well, the next morning as soon as Wetehinen went out, Lisa took the churn 
and dressed it up in some of her own clothes. She carried it to the top of 
the house and perched it on the ridge of the roof before a spinning wheel. 
Then she herself crept inside the third chest and waited.   
When Wetehinen came home he looked up and saw what he thought was Lisa 
spinning on the roof.   
"Hullo!" he shouted. "What are you doing up there?"   
Lisa, in the chest, answered in a voice that sounded as if it came from 
the roof: "I'm spinning. And you, Wetehinen, my dear, don't forget the 
chest that you promised to carry to my poor old father. It's standing in 
the kitchen."   
Wetehinen grumbled but because of his promise he hoisted the chest on his 
shoulder and started off. When he had gone a little way he thought to put 
it down and take a peep inside.   
Instantly Lisa's voice, sounding as if it came from the roof, cried out, 
"No! No! You promised not to look inside!"   
"I'm not looking inside!" Wetehinen called back. "I'm only resting a 
minute!"   
Then he thought to himself, "I suppose she's sitting up there so she can 
watch me!"   
When he had gone some distance farther, he thought again to set down the 
chest and open the lid but instantly Lisa's voice, as from a long way off, 
called out: "No! No! You promised not to look inside!"   
"Who's looking inside?" he called back, pretending again he was only 
resting.   
Every time he thought it would be safe to put down the chest and open the 
lid, Lisa's voice cried out: "No! No! You promised not to !"   
"Mercy on us!" old Wetehinen fumed to himself, "who would have thought she 
could see so far!"   
On the shore of the lake when he threw down the chest in disgust he tried 
one last time to raise the lid.   
Instantly Lisa's voice cried out: "No! No! You promised not to!"   
"I'm not looking inside!" Wetehinen roared, and in a fury he left the 
chest and started back into the water.   
All the way home He grumbled and growled, "A nice way to treat a man, 
always making him carry chests! I won't carry another one no matter how 
much she begs me!"   
When he came neat home he saw the spinning wheel still on the roof and the 
figure still seated before it.   
"Why haven't you got my dinner ready?" he called out angrily.   
The figure at the spinning wheel made no answer.   
"What's the matter with you?" Wetehinen cried. "Why are you sitting there 
like a wooden image instead of cooking my dinner?"   
Still the figure made no answer and in a rage Wetehinen began climbing up 
the roof. He reached out blindly and clutched at Lisa's skirt and jerked 
it so hard that the churn came clattering down on his head. It knocked him 
off the roof and he fell all the way to the ground and cracked his wicked 
old head wide open.   
"Ouch! Ouch!" he roared in pain. "Just wait till I get hold of that Lisa!" 
  
He crawled to the forbidden room and poured over himself the water that 
was in the pitcher marked  Water of Life . But it wasn't the  Water 
of Life  at all, it was the  Water of Death , and so it didn't 
help his wicked old cracked head at all. In fact it just made it worse and 
worse  and  worse.   
Lisa and her sisters were never again troubled by him nor was any one else 
that lived on the shores of that lake.   
"Wonder what's become of wicked old Wetehinen?" people began saying.   
Lisa thought she knew but she didn't tell.