A bear trainer with his dancing bear once came to an isolated mill and
asked the miller to take them in for the night, as there was no village
far and wide, and night was already falling. 
 "I would be glad to take you in," said the miller, "if you are not
afraid, for a water-man comes into the mill every night and plays pranks
on anyone sleeping or even just passing time in the grinding room, and I
don't have room for you anywhere else." 
 "What sort of pranks?" asked the bear trainer. 
 "Just practical jokes," replied the miller, "but they make the people
who come to the mill angry, and they won't come back. I've lost a lot of
customers because of this. Once he smeared pitch on someone's boot soles,
so that he stuck to the floor when he stood up. He poured water into
someone else's boots, or sprinkled bran in their hair. He sewed another
person's pockets shut. Once he even put someone who was sleeping in the
mill into a sack and hung it on a beam, and more such pranks." 
 "If that's all there is, it won' bother me," said the bear trainer.
"I'll stay." 
 So the miller put a bundle of straw on the floor for him, and the man
lay down with the bear at his side, and they slept until twelve o'clock.
The trainer was awakened by the bear's roaring. He jumped up and saw the
bear wrestling with the water-man. The latter had never seen a bear
before, and when he took hold of the bear's fur, the bear held him tightly
with his paws. 
 The trainer quickly went to the mill and started it running. Then he
grabbed the water-man by his feet. The bear held him up, and thus they set
him on the millstone and held him there, in spite of his cries, until half
of his behind had been ground away. Then they let him go, and went back to
sleep. 
 Early the next morning the miller came out and was amazed that both of
them were sleeping so soundly. When the trainer woke up he told the miller
about their last night's adventure, at which the miller had to laugh until
he held his belly. 
 As they parted, the miller gave presents to the bear trainer, and
invited him to stay with him the next time he came that way. Then he lit
his pipe and lay down contentedly near the window.  
 A little dwarf came up to him. He was wearing yellow trousers, a
bright-red vest, a green jacket, and a blue cap. He said to the smoker,
"Miller, do you still have that big cat?" 
 "Yes," said the latter, "I still have her." 
 "Farewell then. You'll never see me again," he said, and trotted
away.