The name most often found in northern Germany ends with a pronounced
"t," and can be grammatically either masculine or feminine. The compound
"nightmårt" is also very common. The forms "mår" (masculine)
and "måre" (feminine) also exist. The designation "alp" is
recognized as well. 
 All of these names are used to designate the spirit being that sits
upon a sleeping person's chest, thus depriving him of motion and speech.
The approaching being sounds like the gnawing of a mouse or the quiet
creeping of a cat. The mårt can be captured by grasping it with an
inherited glove or by closing up all of the room's openings as soon as the
sleeping person begins to groan. 
 Mårt-pressure (also called a mårt-ride) can be prevented
by crossing one's arms and legs before falling asleep. 
 In the Oldenburg district, in Saterland, and in East Friesland, the
alp is called "wåridèrske" or "wäridèrske." 
 In the vicinity of Wendisch-Buchholz the same being is called the
"Murraue." The fear that it causes the sleeping person does not cease
until it gets light in the room. 
 Some pine trees have twigs that grow together in curls until they look
almost like nests. During a rain storm, one must be careful to not stand
beneath such a twig, because if rain drops fall on a person from such a
nest, the murraue will surely sit on him during the night. 
 A person whose eyebrows grow together is called a murraue. 
 A murraue can be either a man or a woman, but only a person born on
Sunday. If they are pressing against you, you should say that you want to
give them something, then they will come the next day to get it.
Braunsdorf near Fürstenwald. 
 The murraue creeps up a sleeping person's body from below. First you
feel her weight on your feet, next on your stomach, and finally on your
chest, and then you cannot move a muscle. However, if you think that you
know who she is, you must call her by name as soon as you perceive her,
and she will have to retreat. Teupitz.  
 If a mårt is pressing against you, and you presume that it is an
acquaintance, you need only call him by name, and he will have to appear
in his physical form. Once a mårt was pressing against a man. He
called out the name of his beloved, and in an instant she was standing
before him. From Elm. 
 It helps to prevent being ridden by a nightmårt when in the
evening one places one's shoes next to the bed with the toes pointing
outward. Varneitze near Winsen on the Aller. 
 If there are seven boys or seven girls in one family, then one of them
will be a night-mare, but will know nothing about it. Moorhausmoor. 
 On the island of Baltrum the male mare is called "wålrüder"
and the female mare is called "rittmeije."