There were once two companions who were
     humpbacks, but one more so than the other.  They were both so poor
     that they had not a penny to their names. One of them said: "I will
     go out into the world, for here there is nothing to eat; we are dying
     of hunger.  I want to see whether I can make my fortune."  "Go,"
     said the other.  "If you make your fortune, return, and I will go and
     see if I can make mine."  So the humpback set off on his journey.  
     Now these two humpbacks were from Parma.  When the humpback had gone
     a long way, he came to a square where there was a fair, at which
     everything was sold.  There was a person selling cheese, who cried
     out:  "Eat the little Parmesan!"  The poor humpback thought he meant
     him, so he ran away and hid himself in a courtyard.  When it was one
     o'clock, he heard a clanking of chains and the words "Saturday and
     Sunday" repeated several times.  Then he answered:  "And
     Monday."  "Oh, heavens!" said they who were singing.  "Who is this
     who has harmonized with our choir?"  They searched and found the
     poor humpback hidden.  "O gentlemen!" he said, "I have not come here
     to do any harm, you know!"  "Well! we have come to reward you; you
     have harmonized our choir; come with us!"
 They put him on a table and removed his hump, healed him, and gave him
two bags
of money. 
"Now," they said, "you can go."  He thanked them and went away without his
hump.
 He liked it better, you can believe!  He returned to his place at Parma,
and when the other humpback saw him he exclaimed:  "Does not that look
just like my friend?  But he had a hump!  It is not he!  Listen!  You are
not my friend so and so, are you?"  "Yes, I am," he replied.  "Listen!  
Were you not a humpback?"  "Yes.  They have removed my hump and given me
two bags of money.  I will tell you why.  I reached," he continued, "such
and such a place, and I heard them beginning to say, 'Eat the little
Parmesan! Eat the little Parmesan!' I was so frightened that I hid
myself."  (He mentioned the place -- in a courtyard.)  "At a certain hour,
I heard a noise of chains and a chorus singing: 'Saturday and Sunday.'
After two or three times, I said: 'And Monday.' They came and found me,
saying that I had harmonized their chorus, and they wanted to reward me.  
They took me, removed my hump, and gave me two bags of money."  "Oh,
heavens!" said the other humpback.  "I want to go there, too!"  "Go,
poor fellow, go!  Farewell!"  The humpback reached the place, and hid
himself precisely where his companion had.  After a while he heard a noise
of chains, and the chorus: "Saturday and Sunday!"  Then another chorus:  
"And Monday!"  After the humpback had heard them repeat:  "Saturday and
Sunday, and Monday!" several times, he added:  "And Tuesday!"  "Where,"
they exclaimed, "is he who has spoiled our chorus?  If we find him, we
will tear him in pieces."  Just think! they struck and beat this poor
humpback until they were tired; then they put him on the same table on
which they had placed his companion, and said: "Take that hump and put it
on him in front."  So they took the other's hump and fastened it to his
breast, and then drove him away with blows.  He went home and found his
friend, who cried:  "Mercy! Is not that my friend?  But it cannot be, for
this one is humpbacked in front.  Listen," he said, "are you not my
friend?"  "The same," he answered, weeping.  "I did not want to bear my
own hump, and now I have to carry mine and yours! and so beaten and
reduced, you see!"  "Come," said his friend, "come home with me, and we
will eat a mouthful together; and don't be disheartened."  And so, every
day, he dined with his friend, and afterward they died, I imagine.