Once upon a time there were a man and a woman to whom the dear Lord had 
given a wonderfully beautiful daughter. The parents and the child prayed, 
and worked, and lived good and wholesome lives.  
 One day when the daughter had just reached her fifteenth year a 
splendid carriage drove up to their little hut. A distinguished gentleman 
emerged from it and said to the parents, "Do you not have a daughter whom 
I could marry?"  
 "No," was the answer. "To be sure, we do have a daughter, but she 
should not get married yet."  
 However, the gentleman would not accept this response. He had his 
horses unhitched, and he stayed there for three days. During these three 
days he was so pious and polite, and furthermore he had so much money and 
other valuables, that he won the mother's approval already on the first 
day, on the second day that of the daughter, and finally on the third day 
that of the father as well.  
 The father had repeatedly said to his wife, "I do not have a good 
feeling about this!" but she made him feel good about it, knowing how to 
coax him with sweet words into giving his approval.  
 As evening of the third day approached they took leave of their 
daughter, and asked the distinguished gentleman to take good care of her. 
He promised to do so, as he hurried away with his beautiful bride.  
 Now this distinguished gentleman was in truth a wild robber and 
cannibal. On their way he told the poor child nothing but horror stories, 
and when he pulled her from his carriage, he said to her, laughing, "Would 
you prefer to be boiled in oil or cooked in water? You are a delicious 
morsel, and because I am so fond of you, I will give you your choice." 
 
 The terrified bride could not answer, and the cannibal pushed her into 
a cave, saying further, "Ask the dear Lord to give you a good idea, and 
during the night prepare yourself to die!" Then he went into an adjoining 
cave.  
 When the girl came to her senses, she heard a terrible commotion in the 
next cave. The robber was beating his housekeeper, who in turn was 
scolding and scratching him. Now she was an old witch. She became very 
angry when he brought home a young girl, and for this she received a good 
beating. That is how the two of them behaved.  
 That night the cannibal slept by himself in his cave, and the old witch 
stayed with the young bride. The latter, however, did not close her eyes, 
but instead prayed and wept continuously. The old witch was upset that she 
was not able to sleep. She was also somewhat touched and still angry with 
the cannibal. At last she croaked, "Stop your whimpering! Just what did 
that beast tell you?"  
 The girl answered, "He asked me if I would prefer to be boiled in oil 
or cooked in water."  
 The witch laughed and replied, "And you have no desire for either one, 
you poor little fool!"  
 This sounded so heartless that it blocked the poor girl's throat.  
 "Don't be so sensitive!" the old hag continued, when she received no 
answer. "Do you want me to tickle you?" And she scratched the girl until 
she cried out loudly. "You have a very good voice!" scoffed the witch, 
then continued, "What I am about to tell you is thanks to that ruthless 
tyrant's blows. Tomorrow morning when he asks you, answer that you would 
prefer to be cooked in water. Then you yourself will have to carry the 
water, for he is too proud to do so himself. I will pretend to be sick. 
When you reach the well, take off your clothes and put them on the 
well-pole as though you were dressing a real person, then hide yourself in 
the hollow tree, the seventh tree on the right-hand side of the path. Now 
give me some peace, or I myself will divulge the plan."  
 Very early the next morning the cannibal came into the cave, and when 
the girl answered his question by saying that she would prefer to be 
cooked in water, he kicked the witch with his foot and shouted, "Go get 
some water while I slaughter my little dove."  
 "Fetch your own water!" croaked the witch. "You have lamed both of my 
arms."  
 The cannibal cursed and ordered his bride, "Take this bucket and get 
some water so that I can cook you!"  
 She took the bucket, put her clothes onto the well-pole, and crept into 
the hollow tree.  
 When she did not return, the robber shouted, "Are you waiting for your 
sweetheart there at the well? Is that why you are standing there without 
moving? If you don't come back immediately, I will see to it that he comes 
to you!"  
 The pole did not pay the least attention to his scoffing, nor did it 
even turn around when the cannibal began to curse and threaten. When 
finally a shot from the cave hit the pole, it neither cried nor fell over. 
 
 "Is that girl bulletproof?" shouted the cannibal, took a broadsword and 
ran to the well.  
 How he seethed when he came closer and found the strange large doll! 
 
 Boiling with rage, he ran with a few leaps back into his cave, tied his 
sword around his waist, mounted his faithful steed, shouted to the witch, 
"Fill the pot with oil and bring it to a boil!" and hurried away, 
accompanied by a large bloodhound.  
 Soon he came to the hollow tree, where the dog stopped and barked and 
scratched. The robber drew his worthy sword and thrust it through the 
bark, cutting the maiden's right big toe. Bright blood flowed from it onto 
the sword, but when he pulled it out again, the blood had disappeared. So 
he rode on.  
 When the girl could no longer hear the galloping horse and the barking 
dog she climbed out of the tree and crept into a deep ditch, then covered 
herself with twigs.  
 A half hour later the angry robber returned. The dog stopped next to 
the ditch, and the robber thrust his sword into the twigs, cutting the 
same toe on its other side. Again blood flowed from it, but when he pulled 
back the sword, it was as clean as before.  
 The poor bride put her ear against the side of the ditch, and when she 
could no longer hear the earth trembling, she wearily climbed out and 
limped to the well in order to dress herself a little. She had just washed 
herself when the robber returned. Seeing her, he shouted loudly for joy. 
He had just pulled out his worthy sword in order to cut off her head, when 
a bullet came out of the woods and struck him down.  
 The prince had just been hunting in the vicinity, and he was the one 
who shot the cannibal. When he came nearer and saw the beautiful maiden, 
his heart burned with love for her. The robber was cursing and writhing in 
his own blood, and the prince had him thrown into the pot filled with oil. 
 
 He took the maiden back to his castle as his wife, and there they lived 
long and happily together.