Once there were living in the country in the northern part of Luzon seven 
crazy fellows, named Juan, Felipe, Mateo, Pedro, Francisco, Eulalio, and 
Jacinto. They were happy all the day long.   
One morning Felipe asked his friends to go fishing. They stayed at the 
Cagayan River a long time. About two o'clock in the afternoon Mateo said 
to his companions, "We are hungry; let us go home!"   
"Before we go," said Juan, "let us count ourselves, to see that we are all 
here!"   
He counted; but because he forgot to count himself, he found that they 
were only six, and said that one of them had been drowned. Thereupon they 
all dived into the river to look for their lost companion; and when they 
came out, Francisco counted to see if he had been found; but he, too, left 
himself out, so in they dived again.   
Jacinto said that they should not go home until they had found the one who 
was lost. While they were diving, an old man passed by. He asked the fools 
what they were diving for. They said that one of them had been drowned. 
  
"How many were you at first?" said the old man.   
They said that they were seven.   
"All right," said the old man. "Dive in, and I will count you."   
They dived, and he found that they were seven. Since he had found their 
lost companion, he asked them to come with him.   
When they reached the old man's house, he selected Mateo and Francisco to 
look after his old wife; Eulalio he chose to be water carrier; Pedro, 
cook; Jacinto, wood carrier; and Juan and Felipe, his companions in 
hunting.   
When the next day came, the old man said that he was going hunting, and he 
told Juan and Felipe to bring along rice with them. In a little while they 
reached the mountains, and he told the two fools to cook the rice at ten 
o'clock. He then went up the mountain with his dogs to catch a deer. Now, 
his two companions, who had been left at the foot of the mountain, had 
never seen a deer. When Felipe saw a deer standing under a tree, he 
thought that the antlers of the deer were the branches of a small tree 
without leaves: so he hung his hat and bag of rice on them, but the deer 
immediately ran away.   
When the old man came back, he asked if the rice was ready. Felipe told 
him that he had hung his hat and the rice on a tree that ran away.   
The old man was angry, and said, "That tree you saw was the antlers of a 
deer. We'll have to go home now, for we have nothing to eat."   
Meanwhile the five crazy fellows who had been left at home were not idle. 
Eulalio went to get a pail of water. When he reached the well and saw his 
image in the water, he nodded, and the reflection nodded back at him. He 
did this over and over again; until finally, becoming tired, he jumped 
into the water, and was drowned.   
Jacinto was sent to gather small sticks, but he only destroyed the fence 
around the garden.   
Pedro cooked a chicken without removing the feathers. He also let the 
chicken burn until it was as black as coal.   
Mateo and Francisco tried to keep the flies off the face of their old 
mistress. They soon became tired, because the flies kept coming back; so 
they took big sticks to kill them with. When a fly lighted on the nose of 
the old woman, they struck at it so hard that they killed her. She died 
with seemingly a smile on her face. The two fools said to each other that 
the old woman was very much pleased that they had killed the fly.   
When the old man and his two companions reached home, the old man asked 
Pedro if there was any food to eat. Pedro said that it was in the pot. The 
old man looked in and saw the charred chicken and feathers. He was very 
angry at the cook.   
Then he went in to see his wife, and found her dead. He asked Mateo and 
Francisco what they had done to the old woman. They said that they had 
only been killing flies that tried to trouble her, and that she was very 
much pleased by their work.   
The next thing the crazy fellows had to do was to make a coffin for the 
dead woman; but they made it flat, and in such a way that there was 
nothing to prevent the corpse from falling off. The old man told them to 
carry the body to the church; but on their way they ran, and the body 
rolled off the flat coffin. They said to each other that running was a 
good thing, for it made their burden lighter.   
When the priest found that the corpse was missing, he told the six crazy 
fellows to go back and get the body. While they were walking toward the 
house, they saw an old woman picking up sticks by the roadside.   
"Old woman, what are you doing here?" they said. "The priest wants to see 
you."   
While they were binding her, she cried out to her husband, "Ah! here are 
some bad boys trying to take me to the church."   
But her husband said that the crazy fellows were only trying to tease her. 
When they reached the church with this old woman, the priest, who was also 
crazy, performed the burial ceremony over her. She cried out that she was 
alive; but the priest answered that since he had her burial fee, he did 
not care whether she was alive or not. So they buried this old woman in 
the ground.   
When they were returning home, they saw the corpse that had fallen from 
the coffin on their way to the church. Francisco cried that it was the 
ghost of the old woman. Terribly frightened, they ran away in different 
directions, and became scattered all over Luzon.