Once upon a time there was a hunter who had a wife and many children,
but only a meager existence. He had many difficulties with his work. He
would have gladly done all the men's work both at home and away from home,
but he was not able to, so although he had only a small income, he still
had to hire a helper. 
 He had about the same luck at hunting that others have. Today he got
something, tomorrow nothing, and many an evening he came home with an
empty bag after spending the whole day traipsing himself tired. 
 Not far from his house there was a high mountain. This was his favorite
place to hunt, and he went there often, for this was the easiest place to
spot game. One day while hunting on this mountain he saw a human lying in
the footpath. His dog ran ahead then raced around the person who was lying
there, all the time barking loudly. The dog was so wild that it seemed he
wanted to tear the person to pieces. With difficulty the hunter held him
back. It was strange that the dog was attacking this person with such
fury, because normally he would do no harm to anyone. 
 With the dog barking at him, the person lying there raised himself a
little and said to the hunter, "Be so good as to sell this dog to me." 
 "No," said the hunter, "I need this dog myself and cannot give him to
you. But I have another one at home that you can have, if what you want is
a dog." 
 "That's good," said the man lying there. "Let my buy the other one. But
you must bring it here at exactly this time tomorrow, and we will close
the deal. Did you hear? Exactly at this time." 
 The hunter gave his word, went away with his dog, and hunted awhile
longer on the mountain. Finding no game, he gave up his traipsing about
and made his way toward home. He arrived home, and after greeting his wife
he told her that he had sold the dog that he never took hunting. 
 The wife was glad to hear this and said, "You should have sold the
other one as well. We would be better off giving the bread to our children
that we use feeding the dogs." 
 The next day, as the appointed time approached, the hunter said, "I
have to leave now with the dog, for the man might not wait, and then the
deal would be broken." 
 He lured the promised dog to come to him and was about to leave when
his thirteen-year-old daughter came up to him and cried out, "Oh, father,
let me come along too!" 
 "Why do want to go with me today?" asked the hunter. 
 The girl did not have an answer, but still would not cease asking to be
allowed to go with her father. In the meantime the hunter's wife came by
and took the girl's side, so in the end the father gave in and allowed her
to go. 
 They went to the mountain, coming finally to the path where the person
had been lying the day before. But today a wild serpent was lying there.
The frightened hunter immediately realized that there had been something
uncanny about the person whom the dog had barked at the day before. Taking
his daughter by the hand, he said, "Let's go. We have to turn back.
Yesterday I knew there was something not right about that man, and now
today there is a serpent lying there in his place." 
 The girl too was afraid, took his hand, and wanted to go. Then the
dragon moved, shot toward the girl, wrapped his tail around her, and
disappeared into the mountain with her. The hunter, paralyzed with fear,
stared after the monster. 
 Now he was sorry that he had not brought his rifle. If he had been
armed he at least could have peppered the dragon's skin a bit. However,
staring after them did no good, and finally he had to decide to go home
and report the sad news. Upon his arrival, his wife saw his distorted face
and said immediately, "Where did you leave the girl? Why isn't she with
you?" 
 Tears came to the hunter's eyes and, crying, he told her what had
happened. After hearing this the hunter's wife was horrified and ran about
crying, "We did not bless the child enough, otherwise this evil would not
have happened to her." 
 The next day the hunter returned to the mountain and combed back and
forth and up and down hoping to find some trace of his child. But he did
not find as much as a scrap of her clothing, and that evening he had to
return home empty-handed. Undaunted, he returned often, looking in every
corner and hole. His thoughts were always with his daughter, even while
hunting game. But his searching was all in vain, and seven years passed
without his discovering even the slightest trace of the girl. 
 After the seven years had passed it happened one day that the hunter
and his helper went to the mountain to hunt. They saw a beautiful game
animal and began to track it, thinking it would soon be theirs. However,
the animal stayed just far enough ahead of them so they could not get a
shot at it, although they never lost it completely from their eyes. They
were determined to get the animal, whatever it might do. Thus they pursued
it long and hard, but all for naught, and did not notice that it was
getting dark. They did not stop until night had fallen, and finally the
hunter said to his helper, "It is late. Night has come, and we are not
going to make it back home." 
 "I don't care," said the helper. "It isn't cold, and we can sleep here
on the ground just as well as at home in bed." 
 "No, said the hunter, "I am not going to lie on the ground here. It is
exactly seven years since the serpent carried my daughter away, and if we
were to lie down on the ground here it could also happen to us that a
serpent or some other beast might attack us and tear us to pieces." 
 "Wait a bit," answered the helper. "I'll climb a tree and look around
to see if there is a house nearby." 
 The hunter laughed at him, saying, "Yes indeed, a house nearby! I know
this entire mountain from top to bottom and know for certain that there is
no house nearby." 
 But the helper would not be dissuaded, and he climbed the tree and
looked around. "Look!" he suddenly called out. "I can see a light just a
little above us. There is certainly a house up there where we can spend
the night." 
 The hunter did not know what to think of this, because he knew full
well that no one lived around here far and wide. The helper climbed
quickly down the tree and said, "Let's go up to the light and see if there
are people there who will give us shelter." 
 The hunter had no desire to go along, but the helper would not give in,
and ridiculed him, so he finally agreed to go, and the two of them climbed
up the mountain. They had not gone far when a light glistened brightly
through the tree branches, and the hunter saw that the helper had been
right. But he was all the more fearful, for he knew that there never had
been a house around here. His fear became even greater when, after
advancing a few paces, there appeared before them a magnificent castle,
from which the light was beaming. 
 The helper stopped and said, "Now you can see which of us was right. I
knew right away that if there was a light on the mountain there must be a
house there as well. Let's go in and ask the people for shelter." 
 The hunter cautioned him, saying, "I have been at this spot many times,
but never in my lifetime has there been a castle standing here. Believe
you me, there is something not right about this. We would be better off to
turn back and spend the night in a tree." 
 But the helper would not be dissuaded, and he said that he would go
inside, come what may. 
 "Then I'll have to go too," thought the hunter to himself, and climbed
up to the door with his helper. They went inside, with the helper bravely
leading the way and the hunter timidly following. 
 A most beautiful maiden came up to them and asked them what they
wanted. 
 The servant spoke first, saying, "Nightfall caught us in the woods and
we were not able to make our way home. May we ask you for shelter for the
night?" 
 "Oh, yes," replied the maiden. "You can spend the night here, but I
have to tell you one thing: You must show neither fear nor disgust." 
 "If there is nothing more than that," said the helper, "then we can
well spend the night here, for we never show fear nor disgust." 
 The helper was speaking for himself, for the hunter thought something
quite different, but he kept his mouth shut and surrendered himself to
fate. 
 The maiden led the two up to a room. Inviting them to be seated, she
went into the kitchen and brought them something to eat. They ate heartily
and felt no disgust. 
 While they were eating, the maiden fetched a tub and placed it in the
room. Then she went for water, and carried water inside until the tub was
full. The two did not know why she was doing this, and the hunter was
still secretly afraid. 
 Then suddenly a disgusting serpent came in the door and fell into the
tub, splashing the water high. The hunter was now even more frightened,
because as far as he could determine, this was the same serpent that seven
years earlier had abducted his daughter. 
 The maiden then went to the tub and began vigorously to wash the
serpent. The longer she washed, the redder the water became, until finally
it was so red that there appeared to be nothing but blood in the
container. The two at the table had to take hold of themselves to keep
their hearts from fluttering like a lamb's tail. 
 After the maiden had washed the serpent clean she helped him out of the
tub. Then he began to speak, saying, "Maiden, would you not like to marry
me?" 
 "No," she said, "I cannot do that. You are a serpent and I am a
human." 
 He asked her again, "Maiden, won't you marry me?" 
 She said again, "No, I cannot do that. You are a serpent and I am a
human." 
 Then he asked for the third time, "Maiden, are you sure that you won't
marry me?" 
 She could no longer refuse him. She felt sorry for him and said,
"Because you won't give in, I will accept you. I have been washing you for
seven years, so for a while I will continue to be able to wash you." 
 She had hardly said this when the serpent disappeared, and a
wonderfully handsome youth stood there in its place. As her bridegroom he
extended his hand to her and said, "You have now redeemed me. As thanks
for this I will indeed take you as my wife and secure a happy life for
you. In this castle we have possessions enough, and the castle itself will
no longer be enchanted, as it was until now." 
 The he led the maiden to the hunter and asked him, "Do you know
her?" 
 "Why should I know her?" said the hunter. 
 "Look at her carefully," said the youth, and tell me if this is not
your daughter. I was banished seven years before she was born. Then I had
to wait thirteen years before bringing her to my castle. For seven years
she has had to wash me every day. Now the magic has been broken, and I
will take her to be my wife. The rest of you no longer must suffer from
poverty. My wealth would be sufficient to care for you even if you had
more children than you actually have." 
 The hunter did not know what was happening to him as he heard this. He
looked first at the maiden and then at the youth, and could not fully
believe that the woman was his child and the man his future son-in-law.
But if he could trust in his own eyes then he had to believe that this was
really his daughter standing before him, and he did not know why he should
not believe the youth. Beside himself with joy, he jumped up and embraced
them both, and then for a long time expressed thanks that everything had
concluded so well. 
 The next day they all went together to the hunter's house and
introduced themselves to the hunter's wife, telling her the whole story.
It cannot be stated how happy she was, and she hurriedly began
preparations for the wedding. When everything was ready the wedding was
celebrated with great splendor. From this time forth the hunter's family
had the best possible life with the daughter's husband. And they all lived
happily together until the end of their lives. 
 (Heard in Meran)