Once upon a time there was a knight that
had a Wyvern on his shield ; but he
was none the better for that, as you
shall hear.  
One day as he was riding in the
country beyond Gloucester, he came
to a forest abounding in boars, stags,
and every kind of wild beast. Now in a
grovy lawn of this forest there was a little mount, rising
in a point to the height of a man, on which knights and
other hunters were used to ascend when fatigued with
heat and thirst, to seek some relief. The nature of the
place -- for it is a fairy place -- is, however, such that whoever
ascends the mount must leave his companions, and
go quite alone.  
As the knight rode in the wood, and came nigh this
fairy-knoll, he met with a wood-cutter and questioned him
about it. He must go thither alone, the wood-cutter told
him, and say, as if speaking to some other person,
"I thirst!"  
Immediately there would appear a cup-bearer in a rich
crimson dress, with a shining face, bearing in his stretchedout
hand a large horn, adorned with gold and gems, such
as was the custom among the most ancient English. The
cup was full of nectar, of an unknown but most delicious
flavour, and when it was drunk, all heat and weariness
fled from those who drank of it, so that they became ready
to toil anew, instead of being tired from having toiled.
Moreover, when the nectar was drunk, the cup-bearer
offered a towel to the drinker, to wipe his mouth with, and
then having done this courtesy, he waited neither for a
silver penny for his services, nor for any question to be
asked.  
Now the knight with the Wyvern laughed to himself
when he heard this.
"Who," thought he, "would be fool enough, having
within his grasp such a drinking-horn, ever to let it go
again from him!"  
Later, that very same day, as he rode back hot and tired
and thirsty from his hunting, he bethought him of the fairy-knoll
and the fairy-horn. Sending away his followers, he
repaired thither all alone, and did as the wood-cutter had
told him. He ascended the little hill, and said in a bold
voice, "I thirst!"  
Instantly there appeared, as the wood-cutter had foretold,
a cup-bearer in a crimson dress, bearing in his
hand a drinking-horn. The horn was richly beset with
precious gems; and the knight was filled with envy at
sight of it. No sooner had he seized upon it, and tasted
of its delicious nectar, which glowed in his veins, than he
determined when he had drained it to make off with
the horn. So, having gotten the horn, and drunk of it
every drop, instead of returning it to the cup-bearer, as in
good manners he should have done, he stepped down
from the knoll, and rudely made off with it in his hand.  
But, learn ye then what fate overtook this knight that
bore the Wyvern on his shield, but was without true
knighthood, and robbed the Fairy Horn. For the good
Earl of Gloucester, who had often quenched his thirst,
and restored his strength, standing on the fairy-knoll, when
he heard that the wicked knight had destroyed the kind
custom of the horn, attacked the robber in his stronghold,
and forthright slew him, and carried off the horn.   
But alas! The earl did not return it to the fairy-cupbearer, but
gave it to his master and lord, King Henry the Elder.  
Since then you may stand all day at the fairy-knoll, and
many times cry, "I thirst!" but you may not taste of the
Fairy Horn.