Once upon a time when a peasant was carrying
wood from a forest he got tired and throwing the
wood on the ground he sat down on a stone to rest.
 
That minute he heard a cry, and someone called,
"Oh, good man, take pity on me! Roll off the stone
and save my life. Free me, and I will pay you as the
world pays best!"
 
The peasant rolled the stone away, and out of the
hole a great snake crawled, wound himself into a spiral,
raised up his head, and said, "Know, man, that I am Yaza! 
Get ready, you must die." 
 
The peasant was terribly frightened, and lamenting
he reproached the snake with ingratitude.
"Didn't you call for help? Haven't I saved your
life?" asked he. 
 
"Of course," replied the snake, "but I am only doing
what I promised; I am paying you as the world pays
best." 
 
After a long discussion the snake agreed to let another
settle the dispute, and they went together in search of
a judge. After a while they came to where an old dog
was tied to a fence. 
 
"How are you, faithful guardian of a house?" asked
the peasant. 
 
"As you see," replied the dog.
 
"Be so kind as to be our judge; we have a dispute."
  
And the peasant told the whole story. "Wasn't it so
and so?" asked he, turning to the snake.
  
"It was," answered the snake.
  
The dog thought a while, then said to the man, "My
friend, you must die, for this is just how the world pays
best. When I was young I was my master's favorite.
He wore the skins of the wolves and foxes which I
caught; I guarded his house from thieves. My master
was fond of me. When offered a carriage and horses
he refused to sell me. But now, when I am old and
weak and can neither run nor bark, he has led me out
here and tied me to the fence to stay till some man kills
me for my skin. This is the world's reward." 
 
The peasant, seeing that he had lost his case, begged
to look for another judge. The snake consented and
they went through forests and across fields till they
came to an old half-starved horse. His head was hanging
down, his sides had fallen in, and he was covered
with flies which he had not strength to drive away.
 
"How are you, noble beast?" asked the peasant.
 
"As you see," replied the horse.
  
The peasant told him the story and begged him to
decide for them.
  
The horse listened patiently to the man's complaint,
then decided in favor of the snake, saying, "This is
the world's reward. 
"When I was young," said he, "I had every comfort.
When I was led out of the stable every one admired me.
I carried my master to war. More than once, by my
swiftness, I saved his life and helped him to fame. Two
men cared for me; they curried me twice each day and
gave me the best of oats and hay. My stable was like
a parlor. In summer they covered me with a net that
flies might not bite me. My master wouldn't have sold
me for a whole village. But when I grew old he starved
me, didn't even give me straw to eat. And now he has
led me out to this barren field to be killed by the wolves.
This is how the world pays best." 
 
"What more do you want, man?" asked the snake.
  
The peasant begged the snake to let him try a third
and last judge. He consented and they went on till at
the edge of a forest they saw a fox, running along.
  
"Oh, Master Fox, wait and be our judge!" called the
peasant. "We have a question to decide."
  
The fox, a cunning fellow, listened to the story, then
winked to the peasant, and whispered, aside, "If you
will give me all of your hens I will help you out of your
trouble."
  
"What are hens!" said the man. "I will give you the
geese too, and if need be all I have in the world."
  
The fox, pretending to be an impartial judge, said,
"This is an important case: one of life and death. The
first who judged, judged lightly. In justice the case
can only be decided on the spot where everything took
place. We will go there."
 
When they came to the place, the fox said, "We
must begin at the beginning. Do you, man, sit down on
the stone, and you, snake, crawl into the hole where you
were lying."
 
When they had done as he told them, and the snake
was back in the hole, he winked at the man, and said,
"Roll the stone over, quickly."
 The peasant didn't wait to be told twice. When the
hole was covered, and the snake couldn't get out, the
peasant thanked the fox for salvation from death.
 The fox answered, "But do not forget that I have
earned the hens. Tomorrow before daylight, I will
come for my breakfast."
 The peasant went home as delighted as if he had
been born a second time. He told his wife what had
happened, praised the wisdom of the fox, and added
that he had promised him all the hens, and that the next
morning he would come for them.
 The woman was glad that her husband was saved, but
she was very sorry to lose her hens.
The next morning, early, she went to the window
and seeing a fox in the yard she called to her husband,
"Do you hear, old man? There is a fox in the yard!"
  
"Oh, that is the fox that saved me. He has come for
the hens!"
 
"Just as if I were crazy enough to give him my hens!"
cried the woman. "The Lord be praised that you are
alive; but take the gun and kill the fox. You will get
good money for his pelt."
 The peasant obeyed his wife. He took the gun and
firing from the window killed the fox.
  
Dying, the fox said in a mournful voice, "This is how
the world pays best."