There was once a little farmer and his wife living near Coolgarrow.
They had three children, and my story happened while the youngest was on
the breast.  
 The wife was a good wife enough, but her mind was all on her family and
her farm, and she hardly ever went to her knees without falling asleep,
and she thought the time spent in the chapel was twice as long as it need
be. So, begonies, she let her man and her two children go before her one
day to mass, while she called to consult a fairy-man about a disorder one
of her cows had. She was late at the chapel, and was sorry all the day
after, for her husband was in grief about it, and she was very fond of
him. 
 Late that night he was wakened up by the cries of his children calling
out, "Mother, mother!" When he sat up and rubbed his eyes, there was no
wife by his side, and when he asked the little ones what was become of
their mother, they said they saw the room full of nice little men and
women, dressed in white and red and green, and their mother in the middle
of them, going out by the door as if she was walking in her sleep. Out he
ran, and searched everywhere round the house, but neither tale nor tidings
did he got of her for many a day. 
 We.. the poor man was miserable enough, for he was as fond of his woman
as she was of him. It used to bring the salt tears down his cheeks to see
his poor children neglected and dirty, as they often were, and they'd be
bad enough only for a kind neighbor that used to look in whenever she
could spare time. The infant was out with a wet nurse. 
 About six weeks after -- just as he was going out to his work one
morning -- a neighbor, that used to mind women at their lying-in, came up
to him, and kept step by step with him to the field, and this is what she
told him: 
 Just as I was falling asleep last night I hears a horse's tramp in the
bawn, and a knock at the door, and there, when I cam out, was a
fine-looking dark man mounted on a black horse, and he told me to get
ready in all haste, for a lady was in great want of me. As soon as I put
on my cloak and things, he took me by the hand, and I was sitting behind
him before I felt myself stirring. 
 "Where are we going, sir?" says I. 
 "You'll soon know," says he, and he drew his fingers across my eyes,
and not a  stim  remained in them. 
 I kept a tight grip of him, and the dickens a knew I knew whether he
was going backwards or forwards, or how long we were about it, till my
hand was taken again, and I felt the ground under me. The fingers went the
other way across my eyes, and there we were before a castle door, and in
we went through a big hall and great rooms all painted in fine green
colors, with red and gold bands and ornaments, and the finest carpets and
chairs and tables and window curtains, and fine ladies and gentlemen
walking about. 
 At last we came to a bedroom, with a beautiful lady in bed, and there
he left me with her; and, bedad, it was not long till a fine bouncing boy
came into the world. The lady clapped her hands, and in came  Fear
Doircha  (Dark Man), and kissed her and his son, and praised me, and
gave me a bottle of green ointment to rub the child all over. 
 Well, the child I rubbed, sure enough; but my right eye began to smart
me, and I put up my finger and gave it a rub, and purshuin to me if ever I
was so frightened. 
 The beautiful room was a big rough cave, with water oozing over the
edges of the stones and through the clay. And the lady, and the lord, and
the child, wizened, poverty-bitten creatures -- nothing but skin and bone,
and the rich dresses were old rags. 
 I didn't let on that I found any difference, and after a bit says
 Fear Doircha , "Go before me to the hall door, and I will be with
you in a few moments and see you safe home." 
 Well, just as I turned into the outside cave, who should I see but poor
Molly. She looked round all frightened and says to me in a whisper, "I'm
brought here to give suck to the child of the king and the queen of the
fairies. But there is one chance of saving me. All the court will pass the
cross near Templeshambo next Friday night on a visit to the fairies of Old
Ross. If John can catch me by hand or cloak when I ride by, and has
courage not to let go his grip, I'll be safe. Here's the king. Don't open
your mouth to answer. I saw what happened with the ointment." 
 Fear Doircha  didn't once cast his eye towards Molly, and he
seemed to have no suspicion of me. When we came out I looked about me, and
where do you think we were but in the dike of the Rath of Cromogue. I was
on the horse again, which was nothing but a big  boolian bui 
(ragweed), and I was in dread every minute I'd fall off. But nothing
happened till I found myself in my own bawn. 
 The king slipped five guineas into my hand as soon as I was on the
ground, and thanked me, and bade me good night. I hope I'll never see his
face again. I got into bed and couldn't sleep for a long time. And when I
examined my five guineas this morning, that I left in the table drawer the
last thing, I found five withered leaves of oak -- bad scran to the
giver!" 
 Well, you may all think the fright, and the joy, and the grief the poor
man was in when the woman finished her story. They talked, and they
talked, but we needn't mind what they said till Friday night came, when
both were standing where the mountain road crosses the one going to
Ross. 
 There they stood looking toward the bridge of Thuar, and I won't keep
you waiting, as they were in the dead of the night, with a little
moonlight shining from over Kilachdiarmid. 
 At last she gave a start, and "By this and by that," says she, "here
they come, bridles jingling, and feathers tossing." 
 He looked, but could see nothing. And she stood trembling, and her eyes
wide open, looking down the way to the ford of Ballinacoola. "I see your
wife," says she, "riding on the outside just so as to rub against us.
We'll walk on promiskis-like, as if we suspected nothing, and when we are
passing I'll give you a shove. If you don't do  your  duty then,
dickens cure you!" 
 Well, they walked on easy, and the poor hearts beating in both their
breasts; and though he could see nothing, he heard a faint jingle, and
tramping, and rustling, and at last he got the push that she promised. He
spread out his arms, and there was his wife's waist within them, and he
could see her plain, but such a hullabaloo rose as if there was an
earthquake; and he found himself surrounded by horrible-looking things,
roaring at him, and striving to pull his wife away. But he made the sign
of the cross, and bid them be gone in God's name, and held his wife as if
it was iron his arms were made of. Bedad, in one moment everything was as
silent as the grave, and the poor woman lying in a faint in the arms of
her husband and her good neighbor. 
 Well, all in good time she was minding her family and her business
again, and I'll go bail, after the fright she got, she spent more time on
her knees, and avoided fairy-men all the days of the week, and
particularly Sunday. 
 It is hard to have anything to do with the good people without getting
a mark from them. My brave midwife didn't escape no more nor another. She
was one Thursday at the market of Enniscorthy, when what did she see
walking among the tubs of butter but  Fear Doirche , very hungry
looking, and taking a scoop out of one tub and out of another. 
 "Oh, sir," says she, very foolish, "I hope your lady is well, and the
young heir." 
 "Pretty well, thank you," says he, rather frightened like. "How do I
look in this new suit?" says he, getting to one side of her. 
 "I can't see you plain at all, sir," says she. 
 "Well, now," says he, getting round her back to the other side. 
 "Musha, indeed, sir, your coat looks no better nor a withered
dock-leaf." 
 "Maybe, then," says he, "it will be different now," and he struck the
eye next him with a switch. 
 Begonies, she never saw a  stim  after with that one till the day
of her death.