In a certain country a king was rearing wild animals. The king had
learnt in a thorough manner the speech of animals. 
 One day at that time the fowls were saying, "Our king assists us very
much; he gives us food and drink." They thanked the king very much. The
king having heard their talk, the king laughed with pleasure. 
 The royal queen having been near, asked, "What did you laugh at?" 
 "I merely ( nikan ) laughed," the king said. Should he explain and
give the talk to any person the king will die. Because of it he did not
explain and give it. That the king knows the speech of animals he does not
inform anyone. 
 The royal queen says, "There is no one who laughs in that way without a
reason. Should you not say the reason I am going away, or having jumped
into a well I shall die." 
 Thereupon the king, because he was unable to be released from [the
importunity of] the queen, thought, "Even if I am to die I must explain
and give this." 
 Thinking thus, he went to give food to the animals. Then it was evident
to those animals that this king is going to die. Out of the party of
animals first a cock says, "His majesty our king is going to be lost. We
don't want the food. We shall not receive assistance. Unless his majesty
the king perish thus we shall not perish. In submission to me there are
many hens. When I have called them the hens come. When I have told them to
eat they eat. When I have told them to go they go. The king, having become
submissive in that manner to the thing that his wife has said, is going to
die." 
 The king having heard it, laughed at it also. 
 Then, also, the royal queen asked, "What did you laugh at?" 
 Thereupon, not saying the [true] word, the king said, "Thinking of
constructing a tank, I laughed." 
 Then the queen said, "Having caused the animals that are in this
Lankawa (Ceylon) to be brought, let us build a tank." 
 Then the king having said, "It is good," caused the animals to be
brought. The king having gone with the animals, showed them a place [in
which] to build a tank; and telling them to build it came away. 
 The animals, at the king's command being unable to do anything, all
together began to struggle on the mound of earth. Those which can take
earth in the mouth take it in the mouth. All work in this manner. The
jackal, not doing work, having bounded away remained looking on. 
 After three or four days, the king having gone [there] trickishly
stayed looking on. The king saw that the other animals are all moving
about as though working. The jackal, only, having bounded off is looking
on. 
 Having seen it he asked the jackal, "The others are all working. Thou,
only, art looking upward. Why?" 
 Thereupon the jackal said, "No, O lord, I looked into an account." 
 Then the king asked, "What account art thou looking at?" 
 The jackal says, "I looked whether in this country the female3s are in
excess or the males are in excess." 
 The king asked, "By the account which thou knowest, are the females in
excess or the males in excess?" 
 The jackal said, "So far as I can perceive, the females are in excess
in this country." 
 Then the king said that men are in excess. Having said it the king
said, "I myself having gone home and looked at the books, if males are in
excess I shall give thee a good punishment." 
 The king having come home and looked at the books, it appeared that the
males were in excess. Thereupon the king called the jackal, and said,
"Bola, males are in excess." 
 Then the jackal says, "No, O lord, your majesty, they are not as many
as the females. Having also put down to the female account the males who
hearken to the things that females say, after they counted them the
females would be in excess." 
 Then the jackal said, "Are the animals able to build tanks? How shall
they carry the earth?" 
 Thereupon the king having considered it, and having said, "Wild
animals, wild animals, you are to go to the midst of the forest," came
home. 
 At that time, the queen asked, "Is the tank built and finished?" 
 Then the king, taking a cane, began to beat the queen. Thereupon the
queen, having said, "Ané! O lord, your majesty, I will never again
say anything, or even ask anything," began to cry aloud. 
 The king got to know that the jackal was a wise animal. 
 Western Province.