Once upon a time there was a great tiger who lived in a forest; and all 
the other animals that lived in the forest treated 

him as their Raja, down to the very birds. They all felt safe under his 
protection, because he was so much feared that no 

men dared hunt in that forest. One day it happened that this Raja tiger 
killed a man and made such a enormous meal on 

the flesh, that he got very bad indigestion. The pain grew worse and 
worse, till he felt sure that his last hour was come. 

  
In his agony he sent for a hyena and offered to make him his  dewan  
[chief minister], if only he would call all the 

other animals of the forest to come and pay a farewell visit to their 
lord. The hyena readily agreed but thought it would be 

better to send another messenger, while he stayed by the tiger to see that 
all the animals duly presented themselves. Just 

then a crow flew overhead; so they called him and deputed him to summon 
all the animals.   
The crow flew off and in a short time all the animals assembled before the 
tiger and paid their respects to him and 

expressed wishes for his speedy recovery -- all except the jackals. They 
had been summoned along with the others; but 

somehow they paid no attention and only remembered about it in the 
afternoon. Then they were very frightened as to 

what would be the consequence of their remissness; but one chief jackal 
stood up and told them not to fear, as he would 

contrive a way of getting the better of the hyena. There was nothing else 
to be done, so they had to put what trust they 

could in their chief and follow him to the tiger.   
On his way the chief jackal picked up a few roots, and took them with him. 
When they reached the place where the 

suffering monarch lay, the hyena at once began to abuse them for being 
late, and the tiger also angrily asked why they 

had not come before; then the chief jackal began humbly "O Maharaja, we 
were duly summoned; your messenger is not 

to blame; but we reflected that it was useless merely to go and look at 
you when you were so ill: that could do you no good; 

so we bestirred ourselves to try and find some medicine that would cure 
you. We have searched the length and breadth of 

the jungle and have found all that is necessary, except one thing and that 
we have failed to find."   
"Tell me what it is," said the hyena, "and I will at once dispatch all 
these animals to look for it and it will surely be found." 

  
"Yes," echoed the tiger, "what is it?"    
"Maharaja," said the jackal, "when you take these medicines, you must lie 
down on the fresh skin of a hyena, which has 

been flayed alive; but the only hyena we can find in the forest is your 
 dewan "   
"The world can well bear the loss of one hyena," said the tiger: "take him 
and skin him."    
At these words all the animals set upon the hyena and flayed him alive; 
and the tiger lay down on the skin and took the 

medicines brought by the jackal; and as he was not seriously ill, his pain 
soon began to pass away.   
"That is a lesson to the hyena not to scold us and get us into trouble," 
said the jackal, as he went home.