A girl had a suitor, and the suitor died. After she had mourned for a few weeks she went to a dance with one of her girlfriends whose fiancé also had died. On their way they passed by the graveyard.  
Standing there, they said, "Get up, you brothers. Who else will take us to the dance?"  
After they had walked on the two dead ones arose and followed after them. The girls had scarcely entered the room where people were dancing when the two suitors came inside as well and danced with them. While dancing the girls stepped on their partners' feet, and they noticed that their boots were empty, so they knew that they were dancing with dead men.  
The dead men swung the girls about so hard that they almost danced them to death. The girls asked for permission to go outside and get some fresh air, but their partners did not want them to leave.  
The girls finally said, "We'll hang our keys at the doorway, and when you hear them rattling, you'll know that we've come back inside," so the men agreed to let them go outside.  
The men heard the keys rattling, but the girls did not return. Instead they they ran and ran and ran until they came to a spinning room.  They ran inside and hid behind the stove.  
An old woman was in the spinning room drying flachs. The girls begged her that if anyone came she should not let them in.  
After the dead men had waited a long time for the girls they took after them, following their footsteps.  
They came to the spinning room and said, "Good evening! Did two girls come in here?"  
The old woman said "No."  
The two said, "They ran to this place.  They must be here." 
The old woman said, "Sit down, my sons. I'll tell you about how flachs suffers."  
The two sat down and listened. She told them how flachs was sown, harvested, carded, spun, woven, bleached, sewn, worn, patched, and finally how the ragman collected it and made paper from the scraps.  
When the old woman finally came to the end of her speech the rooster crowed, and the two dead men had to leave.  
As they departed they said, "It is your luck that with her speech the woman kept us from following you."  
With that they disappeared from sight, and the two girls remained alive.