In Pusarnitz, on the northern boundary with Lurnfeld, there is a prominent grave mound in the old cemetery immediately behind the church.  According to legend it came about as follows:  
Many years ago the plague was ravaging Pusarnitz, taking countless victims. The region was in danger of losing its entire population. Then one day a voice was heard in the air declaring that the pestilence would immediately be defeated if a human were buried alive. The people who heard this did not know where to turn. Not one of them wanted to die such a horrible death. Finally they decided that on the following Sunday the first person to leave the church after the mass would be the sacrifice.  
Two men stood watch in front of the church door when a young woman, a waitress at the Bogner Tavern, stepped out of the church. She had walked scarcely a few steps when the men took hold of her and dragged her to the grave that had been dug for this purpose. Wringing her hands, she begged the men to spare her. She said that she had the keys to the cellar with her, and that she had to hurry home. Nevertheless, before the others left the church she was lying in the grave, covered over with stones and earth.  
Thus she had to sacrifice her young life for the good of the remaining population. The plague's ravages ceased at once.  
As a sign that the sacrifice to the plague was buried there, an elderberry bush was planted on the grave mound. As the bush grew larger the people carefully trimmed it to keep it from sticking out over edge of the adjoining peddler's cottage. For, according to the legend, if it did so the plague would return.  
One year ago the bush was cut down.  
The legend further declares that the mound grew ever larger for some years following the death of the unfortunate young woman.  
 
A similar legend is told about Weitensfeld, a town in the Gurk Valley. There is a simple wood-framed fountain at the lower end of the town's marketplace. Above the fountain stands a column on which there is a large wooden statue of female figure wearing a broad-brimmed pointed hat. It is said that she represents a virgin who was buried alive in the marketplace in the middle ages. The townspeople believed that this was the best way to halt the pestilence that was then ravaging the countryside. And in this they were indeed successful. Later a statue of the virgin was erected above the market fountain as a monument to her love and to her sacrifice.