One evening a traveling journeyman came to an inn, and because he had
been strenuously walking for several days in a row, he decided to rest a
few days. It didn't bother him that his purse would not cover his costs.
 The innkeeper got wind of this, and one evening he said, "My good
friend, you are now well rested. Be so good as to be on your way early in
the morning. Here is the bill for what you owe me."  
This brought both
chills and fever to journeyman, who asked the innkeeper if he at least
could not wait until tomorrow to be paid. "Tomorrow," he said, "is one
more day."  
"Good," said the innkeeper, "but be careful that you don't
end up in the Black Tower Inn. Around here that's where folks stay who eat
and drink more than their purses will cover."  
As soon as the innkeeper
had left, the journeyman threw himself onto his bed, but fear and worry
kept him awake the entire night. Then suddenly a black figure approached
his bed, and the journeyman recognized him as the devil for sure.  
He
said, "Fear not, my dear companion, if you'll provide the sausage, I'll
bring the drinks. Lend me a hand, and I'll help you out of your
predicament."  
"Doing what?" asked the journeyman.  
"Just stay here in
this inn for seven years," said the devil. "I'll keep you out of debt and
provide you with everything you need. Afterward you'll be even better off,
and you'll have money like the leaves on trees. In return for this you
must neither wash yourself, nor comb your hair, nor cut your hair or
nails."  
"That job is worth the pay," thought the journeyman, and he
entered the agreement without further hesitation.  
When the innkeeper
appeared the next morning, the journeyman paid him every last penny that
was due, and he still had a good surplus for future bills.  
The journeyman stayed at the inn for years and days, spending money as though
it were sand on the beach. But he became as wild as the night, and no one
wanted to look at him. One fine morning a merchant who lived nearby came
to the inn. He had three strikingly beautiful daughters. He had come to
tell his sorrows to the innkeeper, for he had badly miscalculated in a
business deal and did not know how he was going to get out of the
difficulty.  
"Listen," said the innkeeper. "There's help for you here. A
strange fellow has been living upstairs in my rented room for more than
six years now. He lets himself go completely, and looks as bad as sin, but
he has money like hay, and is a free-spender. Give him a try. Anyway, I've
long noticed that he often stares at your house. Who knows, perhaps he's
got his eye on one of your daughters.  
This advice made good sense to the merchant. He went upstairs to the journeyman, and the two of them soon struck a deal. The journeyman would pay the merchant's debts, and the merchant would give one of his daughters to the journeyman in marriage.
 
However, when they went to the three daughters, and the father
explained the situation to them, the oldest one ran away, crying out,
"Phooey, father! What sort of a monster is this that you've brought home?
I'd sooner jump into water than to marry him."  
The second daughter did
no better. She cried out, "Phooey, father! What sort of a creature is this
that you've brought home? I'd sooner hang myself than to marry him."
 But the third and youngest daughter said, "He must be a good man,
father, if he wants to rescue you. I'll take him."  
She turned her eyes
to the floor and did not look at him, but he took a great liking to her,
and the wedding was set.  
The seven years that the devil had demanded
were now past. On the morning of the wedding day a splendid coach,
sparkling with gold and precious stones, drove up to the merchant's house.
Out jumped the journeyman, who had now become a fine young nobleman.
 
The bride breathed a sigh of relief, and there was endless rejoicing.
The wedding party went to the church in a long procession, for the
merchant and the innkeeper had invited all their relatives.  
Only the happy bride's two older sisters did not participate. They angrily took
their own lives, the one at the end of a rope, the other in water. And as
the bridegroom was leaving the church, he saw the devil again, the first
time in seven years. He was sitting on a roof, laughing with satisfaction,
and saying:  Partner, I did better than you,  You got one,
and I got two.