Once upon a time there was a peasant. He worked in the woods and took
his oldest daughter along to help him. When the day grew hot he took off
his jacket and laid it in the grass. When his work was finished, he asked
his daughter to fetch it for him. She went to it, but there was a worm
lying on it. She did not want to pick it up, so she ran back to her father
and asked him what she should do. He told her not to be afraid of the
worm. She should just throw it aside and bring him his jacket. She did
this, and they went home. 
 The next day the peasant again went to work in the woods, taking his
second daughter along. Everything happened as before, and in the end she
threw the worm aside, and she and her father returned home together. 
 On the third day, the first daughter was to go along again, but the
third daughter asked the father to take her. She wanted to help out like
the others. They laughed at her, and asked her just how she would be able
to help. They had a low opinion of her and kept her at home like a
Cinderella. But she begged her father so earnestly, that he finally said
she might come along. When it was time to go home, her father told her to
fetch his jacket. She went to it and found the worm on it. But she said to
it, "Dear little worm, would you like a soft place to lie?" 
 The worm looked at her with bright and friendly eyes, as though it
wanted to say "yes!" Therefore she gathered together some moss and made
him a nice soft nest. As soon as she laid him in it, the worm began to
speak, and asked her, "Would you like to enter my service? All you have to
do is carry me about a few hours each day. For this you will receive a
good wage and food and drink as well. If you do this for three years, I
will be redeemed, because I am an enchanted prince, and then I will marry
you!" 
 The girl said that she would do it, and the worm said, "Then come here
tomorrow at the same time." 
 After that she went home with her father. Then she said, "I have lived
at home long enough. I am going try my luck out in the world." 
 They all laughed at her, saying, "You, Cinderella, who would have any
use for you?" 
 The girl replied, "I already have a position," and asked her father to
allow her to leave. He did not want to give his permission, because even
if she did not understand very much, she was still a good worker. Finally
he gave in to her begging, and the next day she set forth. 
 She went into the woods and soon found the worm. He was very pleased
that she had come, and he told her that she should now carry him around a
little. That she did, and when the time was up, a splendid castle suddenly
appeared. In the castle there was a great hall with a large table all
decked out with food and drink, more beautiful than anything she had ever
seen in her entire lifetime. She ate and drank her fill, and then went to
bed. Every day she carried the worm about for an hour or two and then went
to the castle, where everything was prepared for her, and where she was
splendidly provided for. 
 After a year had passed she asked the worm for permission to visit her
father. He agreed on the condition that she return promptly. She took gold
and other precious things for her father and her sisters and went home.
When she arrived with her treasures, her sisters wanted to know where she
had gotten it all, and who her master was. But she told them nothing, for
the worm had forbidden her to do so. They beat her and scolded her, but
she said nothing. 
 The next day she went back into the woods to the worm, and again
carried it about for an hour or two each day. At the end of the second
year she once again visited her father and her sisters, and also at the
end of the third year. When she left the worm, he ordered her also this
last time to return promptly, and she promised to do so. 
 Her father and her sisters insisted that she tell them who her master
was and where she worked, and they refused to let her go. Finally she tore
herself away with force. When she returned to the woods, it was too late.
The worm was no longer there. Sadly she looked everywhere, but that castle
had disappeared, and the worm as well, for while she was away, his spell
had lapsed, and he had turned back into a king, and he was now back at
home in his own kingdom. 
 The girl decided to search for him throughout the world. On her way she
came to a hut in the forest where an old woman lived, whom she asked for
shelter for the night. The old woman received her in a friendly manner,
and the next morning when she was about the leave, she gave her three
apples. She told her there was a golden spindle in the first one, a golden
yarn reel in the second one, and a golden spinning wheel in the third one,
and told her whom she would meet and what she should do. The girl kindly
thanked the friendly old woman and set forth. 
 Many days later and after she had walked a great distance, she came to
a glass mountain. She did not know how she could cross over it, because it
was so smooth that she always slid back down. Finally she saw a smithy not
far away. She went there and had horseshoes attached to her hands and
knees, and climbed over the mountain. 
 She came to a great city. This was where the king lived who had been
the worm that she had carried about every day. He was already married. He
had a beautiful wife and had long since forgotten the girl. 
 She disguised herself and went to the castle where she hired herself
out as a silk spinster. On the first day she opened the first apple that
the old woman in the woods had given her. She took out the golden spindle.
When the queen saw it, she liked it very much and wanted to buy it from
the girl. "No," she said. "It is not for sale, but I will give it to you
if you will let me sleep with the king one night." 
 "Why not?," thought the queen, and gave her promise. As evening
approached she gave the king a sleeping potion, and when he was fast
asleep, she sent for the silk spinster and led her into the king's
bedroom. 
 She sat next to his bed and cried bitterly, "Now I know that
thanklessness is the way of the world," she said. "Three years I carried
you about as a worm. For your sake I received blows and harsh words from
my father and sisters. I had horseshoes attached to my hands and knees in
order to climb over the glass mountain. Now you have forgotten everything
and taken another wife." But the king was so fast asleep that he did not
understand a thing. At dawn the queen came and led the silk spinster out
again. 
 Sadly she took the second apple, broke it open, and took out the golden
yarn reel. When the queen saw it, she admired it greatly and asked the
girl to sell it to her. Once again she said that it was not for sale, but
it could be earned if she were allowed to sleep with the king for another
night. The queen gave her promise, and everything happened as during the
first night. The king lay in knee-deep sleep, and no amount of crying and
complaining could awaken him. However, one of the king's servants had seen
the queen bring the spinster into the king's bedroom. He was curious, and
listened to everything that the silk spinster said. The next day he told
the king what he had seen and heard. 
 But that morning the queen had once again led the silk spinster out of
the king's bedroom. In desperation, the girl opened her last apple, the
one with the golden spinning wheel. When the queen saw it, she said she
would let her sleep with the king yet another night, if she would give her
the golden spinning wheel. The girl agreed, and that evening the queen
once again gave her husband a sleeping potion, but he only pretended to
drink it. He secretly poured it out, then lay down and pretended to be
asleep. Then the queen fetched the silk spinster and led her into the
king's bedroom. The girl sat sadly next to the king's bed and cried
bitterly, "Now I know that thanklessness is the way of the world," she
said. "Three years I carried you about as a worm. For your sake I received
blows and harsh words from my father and sisters. I had horseshoes
attached to my hands and knees in order to climb over the glass mountain.
And you have forgotten everything and taken another wife." 
 The king listened silently to every word, but pretended to be asleep.
The next day he ordered a large festive meal, and he invited the silk
spinster to take her place at his right side. When everyone was seated, he
said, "I want to present all of you with a question, and ask for your
honest and open answer. Many years ago I lost the key to my chest, and
therefore had a new one made. But now I have found the old one. Which one
should I use from now on?" 
 "The old one," they all said as with one voice. "The old one always
fits better." 
 "Now," said the king, "the silk spinster who is sitting here at my
right side took care of me for three years while I was an enchanted worm.
She suffered greatly on my behalf. Therefore, I would like to leave my
wife for as long as the first one is alive, and marry her." And that is
what he did. And thus the silk spinster became queen.