There was once a man who had six sons and two daughters, and he died
leaving his wife pregnant of a ninth child.
 And when the child was born it proved to be a monkey.
 The villagers and relations advised the mother to make away with it,
but she refused, saying, "Chando [the supreme god of the Santals] knows
why he has given me such a child, but as he has done so, I will rear it."
 All her relations said that if she chose to rear a monkey they would
turn her out of the family. However, she persisted that she would do so at
all costs. So they sent her to live with her child in a hut outside the
village, and the monkey boy grew up and learned to talk like a human
being.
 One day his elder brothers began to clear the jungle for cultivation,
and the monkey boy took a hatchet and went with them. He asked where he
could clear land for himself, and in fun they showed him the place where
the jungle was thickest. So he went there and drove his hatchet into the
trunk of a tree and then returned and watched his brothers working hard
clearing the scrub, and when they had finished their work, he went and
fetched his hatchet and returned home with them.
 Every day he did the same. And one day his brothers asked why he spent
all his time with them, but he said that he only came to them when he was
tired of cutting down trees. They laughed at this and said that they would
like to see his clearing, so he took them to the place, and to their
astonishment they saw a large clearing, bigger than they had been able to
make for themselves. Then the brothers burnt the jungle they had cut down
and began to plow the land.
 But the monkey boy's mother had no plow or cattle nor any seed rice.
The only thing in the house was a pumpkin, so he took the seed out of the
pumpkin and sowed it in his clearing. His brothers asked what he had sown,
and he told them, "Rice."
 The brothers plowed and sowed and used to go daily to watch the growing
crop, and one day they went to have a look at the monkey boy's crop, and
they saw that it was pumpkins and not rice, and they laughed at him. When
their crop was ripe the brothers prepared to offer the first fruits, and
the monkey boy watched them that he might observe the same ceremonies as
they. One day they brought home the first fruits and offered them to the
 bongas , and they invited the monkey boy and his mother to come to
the feast which followed the offering.
 They both went and enjoyed themselves; and two or three days later the
monkey boy said that he would also have a feast of first fruits, so he
told his mother to clear the courtyard, and invited his brothers, and he
purified himself and went to his clearing and brought home the biggest
pumpkin that had grown there. This he offered to the spirits. He sliced
off the top of it as if it were the head of a fowl, and as he did so he
saw that the inside was full of rice. He called his mother, and they
filled a winnowing fan with the rice, and there was enough besides to
nearly fill a basket.
 They were delighted at this windfall but kept the matter secret lest
they should be robbed. The monkey boy told his mother to be sure and cook
enough rice so that his brothers and their wives might have as much as
ever they could eat, and not merely a small helping such as they had given
him, and if necessary he would go and fetch another pumpkin. So his mother
boiled the rice.
 When the time fixed for the feast came, nothing was to be seen of the
brothers because they did not expect that there would really be anything
for them to eat. So the monkey boy went and fetched them, and when they
came to the feast they were astonished to have as much rice as they could
eat. When the crop was quite ripe the monkey boy gathered all the pumpkins
and got sufficient rice from them to last for the whole year.
 After this the brothers went out to buy horses, and the monkey boy went
with them, and as he had no money he took nothing but a coil of rope. His
brothers were ashamed to have him with them and drove him away, so he went
on ahead and got first to the place where the horse dealer lived. The
brothers arrived late in the evening and decided to make their purchases
the following morning and ride their horses home, so they camped for the
night. The monkey boy spent the night hiding on the rafters of the stable.
And in the night the horses began to talk to each other and discussed
which could gallop farthest, and one mare said, "I can gallop twelve
 kos  on the ground and then twelve  kos  in the air." [One
 kos  equals about two miles.]
 When the monkey boy heard this he got down and lamed the mare by
running a splinter into her hoof. The next morning the brothers bought the
horses which pleased them and rode off. Then the monkey boy went to the
horse dealer and asked why the mare was lame and advised him to apply
remedies. But the dealer said that that was useless; when horses got ill
they always died. Then the monkey boy asked if he would sell the mare and
offered to give the coil of rope in exchange. The dealer, thinking that
the animal was useless, agreed. So the monkey boy led it away, but when he
was out of sight he took out the splinter, and the lameness at once
ceased. Then he mounted the mare and rode after his brothers, and when he
had nearly overtaken them he rose into the air and flew past his brothers
and arrived first at home. There he tied up the mare outside his house and
went and bathed and had his dinner and waited for his brothers.
 They did not arrive for a full hour afterwards, and when they saw the
monkey boy and his mount they wanted to know how he had got home first. He
boasted of how swift his mare was, and so they arranged to have a race and
match their horses against his. The race took place two or three days
later, and the monkey boy's mare easily beat all the other horses. She
galloped twelve  kos  on the ground and twelve  kos  in the air.
Then they wanted to change their horses for his, but he said they had had
first choice and he was not going to change.
 In two or three years the monkey boy became rich, and then he announced
that he wanted to marry. This puzzled his mother for she thought that no
human girl would marry him while a monkey would not be able to talk. So
she told him that he must find a bride for himself. One day he set off to
look for a wife and came to a tank in which some girls were bathing, and
he took up the cloth belonging to one of them and ran up a tree with it,
and when the girl missed it and saw it hanging down from the tree, she
borrowed a cloth from her friends and went and asked the monkey boy for
her own. He told her that she could only have it back if she consented to
marry him. She was surprised to find that he could talk, and as he
conversed she was bewitched by him and let him pull her up into the tree
by her hair, and she called out to her friends to go home and leave her
where she was. Then he took her on his back and ran off home with her.
 The girl's father and relations turned out with bows and arrows to look
for the monkey who had carried her off, but he had gone so far away that
they never found him. When the monkey boy appeared with his bride all the
villagers were astonished that he had found anyone to marry him, but
everything was made ready for the marriage as quickly as possible, and all
the relations were invited, and the wedding took place, and the monkey boy
and his wife lived happily ever after.