Certain opium eaters, while walking about, found a sequin. They said,
"Let us go to a cook and buy food and eat." So they went and entered a
cook shop and said, "Master, give us a sequin's worth of food." 
 The cook prepared all manner of foods and loaded a porter with them.
And the opium eaters took him outside the city where there was a tomb
[enclosed by four walls]. They entered and sat down, and the porter laid
down the food and went away. The opium eaters fell to eating the food,
when suddenly one of them said, "The gate is open. Stop, one of you shut
the gate, or else other opium eaters will come and trouble us. Even though
they be friends, they will do the deeds of foes." 
 One of them replied, "You go and shut the gate," and they began to
quarrel. 
 At length one said, "Come, let us agree that the one of us who first
speaks shall get up and fasten the  gate." 
 They all agreed to this proposal, and left the food and sat quite
still. Suddenly a she-dog and fifteen dogs came in. Not one of the opium
eaters stirred or spoke, for if one spoke, he would need to get up and
shut the gate, so no one spoke. The dogs made an end of the food and ate
it all up. Just then another dog leaped in from outside, but no food
remained. Now one of the opium eaters had partaken of everything, and some
of the food remained about his mouth and on his beard. The newly arrived
dog licked up the morsels of food that were on the opium eater's breast,
and while he was licking up those about his mouth he took his lip for a
piece of meat and bit it. The opium eater did not stir, for he said to
himself, "They will ask me to shut the gate," but to ease his soul, he
muttered "Ouch!" inwardly cursing the dog. 
 When the other opium eaters heard him make that noise they said, "Get
up and fasten the gate!" 
 He replied, "Caution follows loss. Now that the food is gone and my lip
is wounded, what need is there to shut the gate? Through negligence and
folly you have let these very good things slip from your hands." 
 And crying "Woe! Alas!" they went each in a different direction.