A Welshman walking over London Bridge, with a neat hazel staff in his
hand, was accosted by an Englishman, who asked him whence he came. 
"I am from my own country," answered the Welshman, in a churlish tone. 
"Do not take it amiss, my friend," said the Englishman; "if you will only
answer my questions, and take my advice, it will be of greater benefit to
you than you imagine.  That stick in your hand grew on a spot under which
are hid vast treasures of gold and silver; and if you remember the place,
and can conduct me to it, I will put you in possession of those
treasures." 
The Welshman soon understood that the stranger was what he called a
cunning man, or conjurer, and for some time hesitated, not willing to go
with him among devils, from whom this magician must have derived his
knowledge; but he was at length persuaded to accompany him into Wales; and
going to Craig-y-Dinas, the Welshman pointed out the spot whence he had
cut the stick.  It was from the stock or root of a large old hazel: this
they dug up, and under it found a broad flat stone.  This was found to
close up the entrance into a very large cavern, down into which they both
went.  In the middle of the passage hung a bell, and the conjurer
earnestly cautioned the Welshman not not touch it.  They reached the lower
part of the cave, which was very wide, and there saw many thousands of
warriors lying down fast asleep in a large circle, their heads outwards,
every one clad in bright armour, with their swords, shields, and other
weapons lying by them, ready to be laid hold on in an instant, whenever
the bell should ring and awake them.  All the arms were so highly polished
and bright, that they illumined the cavern, as with the light of ten
thousand flames of fire.  They saw amongst the warriors one greatly
distinguished from the rest by his arms, shield, battle-axe, and a crown
of gold set with the most precious stones, lying by his side. 
In the midst of this circle of warriors they saw two very large heaps, one
of gold, the other of silver.  The magician told the Welshman that he
might take as much as he could carry away of either the one or the other,
but that he was not to take from both the heaps.  The Welshman loaded
himself with gold: the conjurer took none, saying that he did not want it,
that gold was of no use but to those who wanted knowledge, and that his
contempt of gold had enabled him to acquire that superior knowledge and
wisdom which he possessed.  In their way out he cautioned the Welshman
again not to touch the bell, but if unfortunately he should do so, it
might be of the most fatal consequence to him as one or more of the
warriors would awake, lift up his head, and ask  if it was day.  
"Should this happen," said the cunning man, "you must, without hesitation,
answer  No, sleep thou on;  on hearing which he will again lay down
his head and sleep." 
In their way up, however, the Welshman, overloaded with gold, was not able
to pass the bell without touching it -- it rang -- one of the warriors
raised up his head, and asked, "Is it day?" 
"No," answered the Welshman promptly, "it is not, sleep thou on;" so they
got out of the cave, laid down the stone over its entrance, and replaced
the hazel tree. 
The cunning man, before he parted from his companion, advised him to be
economical in the use of his treasure; observing that he had, with
prudence, enough for life: but that if by unforeseen accidents he should
be again reduced to poverty, he might repair to the cave for more;
repeating the caution, not to touch the bell if possible, but if he
should, to give the proper answer,  that it was not day,  as promptly
as possible.  He also told him that the distinguished person they had seen
was Arthur, and the others his warriors; and they lay there asleep with
their arms ready at hand for the dawn of that day when the  Black Eagle
  and the  Golden Eagle   should go to war, the loud clamor of
which would make the earth tremble so much, that the bell would ring
loudly, and the warriors awake, take up their arms, and destroy all the
enemies of the Cymry, who afterwards should repossess the Island of
Britain, re-establish their own king and government at Caerlleon, and be
governed with justice, and blessed with peace so long as the world
endures. 
The time came when the Welshman's treasure was all spent:  he went to the
cave, and as before over-loaded himself.  In his way out he touched the
bell --  it rang --  a warrior lifted up his head, asking  if it was 
day,   but the Welshman, who had covetously overloaded himself, being 
quite out of
breath with labouring under his burden, and withal struck with terror, was
not able to give the necessary answer; whereupon some of the warriors got
up, took the gold away from him and beat him dreadfully.  They afterwards
threw him out, and drew the stone after them over the mouth of the cave.
 
The Welshman never recovered the effects of that beating, but remained
almost a cripple as long as he lived, and very poor.  He often returned
with some of his friends to Craig-y-Dinas; but they could never afterwards
find the spot, though they dug over, seemingly, every inch of the hill. 
He lived in this cripled and poor condition very long, a warning to all, 
of the evils which result from a want of knowledge and prudence, teaching 
not to be covetous, not to neglect good advice, and never to trust that 
they can, without danger, give way to their own wishes, except one:  the 
wish to be good.