There was once a queen that was left a widow with one daughter, who was as 
good and handsome as any girl could be. But her mother wasn't satisfied to 
remain without a husband; so she married again, and a very bad choice she 
made. Her second husband treated her very badly; and she died soon after. 
Well, would you ever think of the widower taking it into his head to marry 
the young princess at the end of a year? She was as shocked as she could 
be when he made her the offer, and burst out a crying.   
"I took you too sudden," said he. "Sleep on it, and you can give me an 
answer tomorrow."  
 She was in great trouble all the rest of the day, and when the evening 
came she went out into the paddock, where a beautiful filly she used to 
ride was grazing. "Oh my poor beast! " said she, "I'm sure if you knew my 
trouble you'd pity me."   
"I do know your trouble, and I pity you, and I'll help you too," says the 
filly. "I'm the fairy that watched over you from the time you were born, 
and I am here near you since your mother married the second time. Your 
stepfather is an enchanter, but he'll find me too strong for him. Don't 
seem shocked when he'll ask your consent tomorrow, but say you must have 
first a dress of silk and silver thread that will fit into a walnut shell. 
He'll promise, and will be able to get it made too, but I'll bother his 
spinner and his weaver long enough before he'll get it wove, and his 
seamstress after that, before it's sewed."   
The princess  done  as she was bid, and the enchanter was in great 
joy; but he was kept in great trouble and anger for a full half year 
before the dress was ready to go on the princess. At last it was fitted, 
and he asked her was she ready to be his wife.   
"I'll tell you tomorrow," said she.   
So she went to consult her filly in the paddock. Well, the next day he put 
the question to her again, and she said that she couldn't think of 
marrying anyone till she had another dress of silk and gold thread that 
would fit in a walnut shell.   
"I wish you had mentioned itself and the silver dress together. Both could 
have been done at the same time. No matter. I'll get it done."   
Whatever trouble the spinner and the weaver and the seamstress had 
with the other dress, they had twice it with this; but at last it was 
tried on, and fitted like a glove.   
"Well now," says  Fear Dhorrach , "I hope you're satisfied, and won't 
put off the wedding again."   
"Oh, you must forgive me," said she, "for my vanity." She was talking to 
the filly the evening before. "I can't do without a dress of silk thread 
as thick as it can be with diamonds and pearls no larger than the head of 
a minnikin pin. Three is a lucky number, you know."   
"Well, I wish you had mentioned this at first, and the three could be 
making together. Now this is the very last thing you'll ask, I expect." 
  
"Oh, I'll never ask another, you may depend, till I'm married."   
She didn't say till  we're  married.   
The dress came home at last. Well, the same evening she found on her bed 
another made from bottom to top of cat-skins, and this she put on. She 
put her three walnut shells in her pocket, and then stole out to the 
stable, where she found her filly with a bridle in her mouth, and the 
nicest side-saddle ever you saw on her back. Away they went, and when the 
light first appeared in the sky they were a hundred miles away.   
They stopped at the edge of a wood, and the princess was very glad to rest 
herself on a bunch of dry grass at the foot of a tree. She wasn't a minute 
there when she fell asleep; and soundly she did sleep, till she was woke 
up by the blowing of bugles and the yelping of beagles. She jumped up in a 
fright. There was no filly near her, but half a hundred spotted hounds 
were within forty perches of her, yelling out of them like vengeance.   
I needn't tell you she was frightened. She had hardly power to put one 
foot past the other, and she'd be soon tore into giblets by the dogs on 
account of her dress, but a fine young hunter leaped over their heads, and 
they all fell back when he shook his whip and shouted at them. So he came 
to the princess, and there she was as wild looking as you please, with her 
cat-skins hanging round her, and her face and hands and arms as brown as a 
berry, from a wash she put on herself before she left home. Well that 
didn't hinder her features from being handsome, and the prince was 
astonished at her beauty and her color and her dress, when he found she 
was a stranger, and alone in the world. He got off his horse, and walked 
side by side with her to his palace, for he was the young king of that 
country.   
He sent for his housekeeper when he came to the hall door, and bid her 
employ the young girl about whatever she was fit for, and then set off to 
follow the hounds again.   
Well, there was great tittering in the servants' hall among the maids at 
her color and her dress, and the ganders of footmen would like to be 
joking with her, but she made no freedom with one or the other, and when 
the butler thought to give her a kiss, she gave him a light slap on the 
jaw that wouldn't kill a fly, but he felt as if a toothache was at him for 
eight and forty hours. By my word, the other buckeens did not give her an 
excuse to raise her hand to them. Well, she was so silent and kept herself 
to herself so much, that she was no favorite, and they gave her nothing 
better to do than help the scullery maid, and at night she had to put up 
with a little box of a place under the stairs for a bedroom.   
The next day, when the prince returned from hunting, he sent word to the 
housekeeper by the whipper-in to let the new servant bring him up a basin 
and towel till he'd wash before dinner.   
"Oh, ho!" says the cook, "there's an honor for Cat-Skin. I'm here for 
forty years and never was asked to do such a thing; how grand we are! 
 purshuin  to all impedent people!"   
The princess didn't mind their jibes and their jeers. She took up the 
things, and the prince delayed her ever so long with remarks and 
questions, striving to get out of her what rank of life she was born in. 
As little as she said he guessed her to be a lady. I suppose it is as hard 
for a lady or gentleman to pass for a vulgarian, as for one of us to act 
like one of the quality.   
Well to be sure! all the cold and scornful noses that were in the big 
kitchen before her; and it was, "Cat-Skin, will you hand me this? 
Cat-Skin, will you grease my shoes? Cat-Skin, will you draw a jug of beer 
for me?" And she done everything she was asked without a word or a sour 
look.   
Next night the prince was at a ball about three miles away, and the 
princess got leave from the housekeeper to go early to bed. Well, she 
couldn't get herself to lie down. She was in a fever like; she threw off 
her outside dress, and she stepped out into the lawn to get a little fresh 
air. There what did she behold but her dear filly under a tree. She ran 
over, and threw her arms round her neck, and kissed her face, and began to 
cry.   
"No time for crying!" says the filly. "Take out the first walnut shell you 
got."   
She did so, and opened it.   
"Hold what's inside over your head," said the other, and in a moment the 
silk and silver dress wrapped her round as if a dozen  manty-makers  
were after spending an hour about it.   
"Get on that stump," says the filly, "and jump into the side-saddle."   
She did so, and in a few minutes they were at the hall door of the castle 
where the ball was. There she sprung from her saddle, and walked into the 
hall. Lights were in the hall and everywhere, and nothing could equal the 
glitter of the princess's robes and the accoutrements of her steed. It was 
like the curling of a stream in the sun.   
You may believe that the quality were taken by surprise, when the princess 
walked in among them as if they were the lords and ladies in her father's 
court. The young king came forward as he saw the rest were a little cowed, 
and bade her good evening and welcome; and they talked whatever way kings 
and queens and princesses do, and he made her sit on his own seat of 
honor, and took a stool or a chair near her, and if he wasn't delighted 
and surprised, her features were so like the scullery maid's, leave it 
till again.   
They had a fine supper and a dance, and the prince and she danced, and 
every minute his love for her was increasing, but at last she said she 
should go. Every one was sorry, and the prince more than anyone, and he 
came with her to the hall, and asked might he see her safe home. But she 
showed him her filly and excused herself.   
Said he, "I'll have my brown horse brought, and myself and my servants 
will attend you."   
"Hand me up on my filly," says she, " first of all," and, be the laws, I 
don't know how princes put princesses on horseback. Maybe one of the 
servants stoops his back, and the prince goes on one knee, and she steps 
first on his knee and then on the servant's back, and then sits in the 
saddle. Anyhow she was safe up, and she took the prince's hand, and bid 
him good night, and the filly and herself were away like a flash of 
lightning in the dark night.   
Well, everything appeared dismal enough when he went back to where a 
hundred tongues were going hard and fast about the lady in the dazzling 
dress.   
Next morning he bid his footman ask the girl in the cat-skin to bring him 
hot water and a towel for him, to shave. She came in as modest and 
backward as you please; but whenever the prince got a peep at her face, 
there were the beautiful eyes and nose and mouth of the lady in the 
glittering dress, but all as brown as a bit of bogwood. He thought to get 
a little talk out of her, but dickens a word would come out of her mouth 
but  yes  or  no .   
And when he asked her was she of high birth, she turned off the discourse 
and wouldn't say one thing or the other; and when he asked would she like 
to put on nice clothes and be about his mother, she refused just as if he 
asked her to drown herself. So he found he could make nothing of her, and 
let her go down stairs.   
There was another great ball in a week's time, and the very same thing 
took place again. There was the princess, and the dress she had on was of 
silk and gold thread, and the darlintest little gold crown in the world 
over her purty curling hair.   
If the prince was in love before, he was up to his eyes in it this time; 
but while they were going on with the nicest sweet talk, says she, "I'm 
afraid, prince, that you are in the habit of talking lovingly to every 
girl you meet."   
Well, he was very eager to prove he was not.   
"Then," said she, "a little bird belied you as I was coming through the 
wood. He said that you weren't above talking soft even to a young servant 
girl with her skin as brown as a berry, and her dress no better than 
cat-skin.''   
"I declare to you, princess," said he, "there is such a girl at home, and 
if her skin was as white as yours, and her dress the same, no eye could 
see a bit of differ between you."   
"Oh, thankee, prince!" says she, "for the compliment; it's time for me to 
be going."   
Well, he thought to mollify her, but she curled her upper lip and cocked 
her nose, and wasn't long till she left, the way she did before. While she 
was getting on her filly, he almost went down on his knees to her to make 
it up.   
So at last she smiled, and said, "If I can make up my mind to forgive you, 
I'll come to the next ball without invitation."   
So she was away, and when they came under the tree in the lawn she took 
the upper hem of her dress in her fingers and it came off like a glove, 
and she made her way in at the hack door, and into her crib at the 
stair-foot.   
The prince slept little that night, and in the morning he sent his footman 
to ask the girl in the cat-skins to bring up a needle and thread to sew a 
button on his shirt sleeve. He watched her fingers, and saw they were 
small and of a lovely shape; and when one of them touched his wrist, it 
felt as soft and delicate as silk.   
All he could say got nothing out of her only, "It wasn't a nice thing for 
a prince to speak in that way to a girl of low degree, and he boasting of 
it after to princesses and great ladies."   
Well, how he did begin to deny anything so ungenteel, but the button was 
sewed, and she skipped away downstairs.   
The third night came, and she shook the dress of silk and pearls and 
diamonds over her, and the nicest crown of the same on her head. As grand 
and beautiful as she was before, she was twice as grand now; and the lords 
and ladies hardly dared to speak above their breaths, and the prince 
thought he was in heaven. He asked her at last would she be his queen, and 
not keep him in misery any longer, and she said she would, if she was sure 
he wouldn't ask Miss Cat-Skin the same question next day.   
Oh, how he spoke, and how he promised! He asked leave to see her safe 
home, but she wouldn't agree.   
"But don't be downcast," said she. "You will see me again sooner than you 
think; and if you know me when you meet me next, we'll part no more."   
Just as she was sitting in her saddle, and the prince was holding her 
hand, he slipped a dawny limber ring of gold on one finger. It was so 
small and so nice to the touch he thought she wouldn't feel it.   
"And now, my princess," says he to himself, "I think I'll know you when I 
meet you."   
Next morning he sent again for the scullery girl, and she came and made a 
 curtchy .   
"What does your majesty want me to do?" said she.   
"Only to advise me which of these two suits of clothes would look best on 
me; I'm going to be married."   
"Ah, how could the likes of me be able to advise you? Is the rich dressed 
lady, that I heard the footmen talking about, to be your queen?"   
"Yourself is as likely to be my wife as that young lady."   
"Then who is it?"   
"Yourself, I tell you."   
" Myself! How can your majesty joke that way on a poor girl? They say 
you're promised to the lady of the three rich dresses."   
"I'm promised to no one but yourself. I asked you twice already to be my 
queen; I ask you now the third time."   
"Yes, and maybe after all, you'll marry the lady of the dresses."   
"You promised you'd have me if I knew you the next time we'd meet. This is 
the next time. If I don't know you, I know my ring on your fourth finger." 
  
She looked, and there it was sure enough. Maybe she didn't blush.   
"Will your majesty step into the next room for a minute," said she, "and 
leave me by myself?"   
He did so, and when she opened the door for him again, there she was with 
the brown stain off her face and hands, and her dazzling dress of silk and 
jewels on her.   
Wasn't he the happy prince, and she the happy princess? And weren't the 
noisy servants  lewd  of themselves when they saw poor Cat-Skin in 
her royal dress saying the words before the priest? They didn't put off 
their marriage, and there was the fairy now in the appearance of a 
beautiful woman; and if I was to tell you about the happy life they led, 
I'd only be tiring you.