Once upon a time there lived in a Russian village an old peasant woman 
who had two sons. One, however, died; and 
the other was from home, but was soon expected to return to his native 
village. 
 One evening, as the peasant woman was working in her little hut, a 
soldier walked in at the open door. "Good day, little 
mother!" he said. "Can I stay here the night?" 
 "Yes, certainly, with pleasure, little father. But whence come you, and 
who are you?" 
 "I am nobody in particular, little mother. I am an emigrant for the 
next world." 
 "Ah! My precious soul! One of my sons died a little while ago. Did you 
happen to come across him?" 
 "Why, yes, of course! We lived in the same sphere." 
 "No, really! You don't mean it?" 
 "He feeds and looks after the young cranes in the next world." 
 "Oh, my precious soul! But where did he get them?" 
 "Where did he get them! Why, the young cranes roam about among the 
sweet-briar!" 
 "How did he look? What clothes had he on?" 
 "Clothes!" He was all in tatters, and a pair of wings." 
 "Poor fellow! Well, I have got about forty yards of gray cloth and a 
ten-ruble note. Take them, good man, and give them to my son." 
 "With pleasure, little mother." 
 Next morning the old woman gave the soldier the cloth and the money, 
and wished him a safe journey back. And she 
also begged him to come again soon and tell her how her son was getting 
on. 
 She waited and waited for many a week, but the soldier did not return. 
At last the day arrived when her other son was expected home. 
 "How are you, mother mine?" he exclaimed, coming into the hut and 
embracing his mother. "Have you any news?" 
 "Yes, my boy. Not very long ago an emigrant from the other world came 
to stay the night here, and he brought some 
news of your brother, for they both lived in the same sphere. But he said 
that the poor fellow had nothing but a pair of wings, 
so I gave him forty yards of cloth and ten rubles." 
 "Good gracious, mother, you have given away everything we had. And for 
what? Just because that man was artful 
enough to tell you a lot of lies. It really is most astonishing how 
confiding some people are! I think I will go into the wide 
world and tell a lot of lies, and see whether, after cheating everybody, I 
become a very rich man or not. If I succeed, I shall 
come home again, and then we can live happily together, and have food and 
money in plenty ever after." 
 Next day the son went off to try his luck. He went on and on until he 
came to an estate belonging to a rich Russian 
 barin  or gentleman. He walked up to the lordly mansion and saw, in 
a garden near the house, a large pig with a 
number of little ones walking about. A thought struck him, and he went 
down on his knees before the pigs, and began 
making most polite bows to them. 
 Now the mistress of the house, who was looking out of one of the 
windows, saw the performance, and was greatly 
amused. "Go," she said to one of her maids, "and ask the mujik [peasant] 
what he is bowing for." 
 The maid went up to the peasant, saying, "Little mujik, tell me why you 
are on your knees before the pigs, and why you 
are bowing to them? My lady has sent me to ask." 
 "Tell your mistress, my little dear, that yonder pig is my wife's 
sister, and my son is going to be married tomorrow, so I 
am asking her and her young ones to come to the wedding. That is all. And 
she has consented, on condition that your lady 
allows them. So go and ask your mistress whether she will let them come 
with me." 
 The girl burst out laughing, and went straight to her mistress, who 
also began laughing heartily when she heard all the 
peasant had said. "What a donkey!" she cried. "Fancy asking the pigs to 
his son's wedding! Well, never mind. Let all his 
friends have a good laugh at him. Yes, he may take the pigs. But first 
dress them up in my  shuba  (fur coat), and let 
the coachman get my own little carriage and team ready, so that the pigs 
need not go to the wedding on foot." 
 When the carriage was ready, they dressed the pig up in the lady's fur 
coat, and placed it in the carriage with the young 
ones, and gave the reins to the peasant, who at once rode away 
homewards. 
 Now the master of the house, who was away shooting at the time, 
returned home a few minutes after the peasant had 
left. His wife ran out to meet him, laughing. 
 "I am so glad you have returned, my dear!" she said, "as I am longing 
to have someone to laugh with. Such a funny thing 
happened while you were away. A peasant came here and began kneeling and 
bowing before our pigs. He declared that 
one of them was his wife's sister, and he was asking her and the little 
ones to come to his son's wedding!" 
 "Yes," the husband replied. "and did you let her go?" 
 "Of course I did. I even had the pig dressed in my best  shuba , 
and had her put in my own little carriage and 
team, and let the peasant drive it himself. I think it was nothing but 
right for me to do so. The peasant was so very polite to 
the pigs. What do you think, my dear?" 
 "What did  I  think? Well this: that the peasant was an ass, and 
you were another!" 
 And the good man, like the rest of his sex, thought it was a splendid 
opportunity for flying into a rage. He told his wife 
that she had been cheated, and then rushing out of the house, he flung 
himself upon his horse and galloped off after the 
peasant, who, when he heard that he was being being pursued, conveyed the 
carriage and team into a dark forest hard by, 
and then going back, took off his cap, seated himself near the entrance of 
the forest, put the cap beside him on the ground, 
and waited until the horseman came up to him. 
 "Hark you, little father!" cried the  barin , "have you seen a 
peasant drive this way with a carriage and team and a 
number of pigs in it?" 
 "See him? I should rather think I did! He rode past a long time 
ago." 
 "In which direction did he drive? How had I better go? Do you think I 
am likely to overtake him?" 
 "Yes, you could overtake him, I daresay. But the way he went by has 
many a turning, and you are sure to lose 
yourself. Is the road quite unknown to you?" 
 "Yes, little brother. I think, if you don't mind, it would be better 
for you to go in search of him and bring him back to me, 
for you seem to know the way so well!" 
 "No, brother, I could not possibly, for I have a falcon under my cap 
here and must watch it." 
 "I can do that for you." 
 "No, you are sure to let him out, and the bird is very valuable. 
Besides, if I lost it my master would never forgive 
me." 
 "But how much is it worth?" 
 "Three hundred rubles, I should think." 
 "Very well then, if I lose the bird I will pay the money." 
 "No, brother, if you really want me to go after the peasant, you had 
better give me the money now, for heaven knows 
what might happen afterwards. You might lose the bird, and then take your 
departure too, and I should never see either the falcon or the money!" 
 "Oh, you incredulous man! Here, take the three hundred rubles anyhow!" 
 The peasant took the money, and at the  barin's  wish mounted his 
horse and rode off into the forest, leaving the 
 barin  to watch over the empty cap. 
 He waited and waited, but the peasant did not return, which he thought 
looked rather queer. The sun began to set. Still no peasant. 
 "Stop!" thought the  barin . "Let me look and see whether 
there really is a falcon under that cap. If there is, 
then the peasant may possibly return. If not, well, then it is of no use 
waiting here and wasting my time." He peeped under 
the cap, but no falcon was to be seen. 
 "Ah, the wretch! he laughed. "I do believe that he was the very same 
man who cheated my wife out of her carriage and 
team, her  shuba , and the pigs." 
 He spat on the ground three times with vexation, and returned home to 
his wife penitent. 
 Meanwhile our friend the peasant had long since got safely back to his 
mother with all his treasures. "Well, mother 
mine!" he cried, "this world of ours can certainly boast of some very 
good-natured fools. Just look, without any reason 
whatever, they gave me three horses, a carriage, three hundred rubles, and 
a pig with her little ones. Now we can live happily 
for some time at least, thanks to the stupidity of these people. It really 
is wonderful.