Where was it? Where was it not? Once upon a time there was a poor man who 
had a very pious son who was a shepherd. One day he was grazing his sheep 
in a very mountainous area when, like someone whose heart was about to 
break because of a great wish, he uttered a deep sigh toward heaven. 
Hearing a quiet sound he looked around and saw Saint Peter as a gray old 
man walking toward him.   
"Why are you sighing so, my son?" he asked, "and what is your wish?"   
"My only wish," he answered respectfully, "is a bag that can never be 
filled and a pelt that would make me invisible when I wrap myself in it." 
  
Peter granted these wishes, and then disappeared.   
The boy left his shepherd's things lying there and made his way to the 
capital city. Here he hoped to find his luck, for a king lived here who 
had twelve daughters, eleven of whom wore out at least six pairs of shoes 
every night. This angered their father because it was costing him a good 
part of his income, and furthermore some people were thinking ill of his 
daughters. But in spite of all his cunning he could not discover how they 
were doing this. Finally the king promised his youngest daughter to the 
man who could bring the mystery to the light of day.   
This promise lured a great many suitors to the capital city, but they were 
all ridiculed by the girls, and they had to withdraw in shame. The 
shepherd boy, trusting in his pelt, presented himself as well, and the 
girls, as usual, measured him with spiteful looks.   
Night came, and the boy, wrapped in his pelt, lay down before their 
bedroom door, then quickly slipped inside when they went to bed. At 
midnight a spirit entered and awoke each girl. There was a flurry of 
activity: they got dressed, made themselves beautiful, then stuffed a 
travel bag full of shoes. However, the youngest one did not see what was 
happening. Therefore the invisible shepherd boy, without being noticed, 
awoke her as well, which frightened the other sisters. However, because it 
had already happened, they thought it would be best to tempt her to join 
them. After some hesitation the girl agreed to do so.   
When everyone was ready the spirit placed a basin on the table. Each 
sister rubbed some of its contents onto her shoulders, and wings 
immediately grew from them. The shepherd boy did the same thing, and when 
they all flew out the window, he flew after them.   
After flying a few hours they came to a great copper forest and to a well 
with a copper railing on which were twelve copper cups. Here they 
refreshed themselves and drank. The youngest one, who was taking this 
journey for the first time, looked about fearfully. The boy drank as well, 
and as they were setting forth again, he put into his bag a cup and some 
leaves that he pulled from a tree,. The tree rustled noisily, sounding 
through the entire forest. The littlest girl noticed this and warned her 
sisters that someone was following them, but thinking they were safe, they 
only laughed at her.   
They flew onward, and before long they came to a silver forest and to a 
well with a silver railing. They drank here as before, and the boy again 
put a cup and a silver twig into his bag. At the sound of the twig being 
broken from the tree the smallest sister again warned her sisters, but to 
no avail.   
Leaving this forest they arrived at a golden forest, and a well with a 
golden railing and golden cups. They also stopped here, and the boy put a 
golden cup and a golden twig into his bag. Hearing the cracking sound, the 
smallest sister alerted the others, but again they did nothing.   
After leaving this forest they came to a huge mountain cliff, whose 
moss-covered summit reached steeply toward heaven. They stopped here, and 
the spirit struck the cliff with a golden wand, upon which it opened up, 
and they all went through the opening, the boy as well.   
They entered a marvelous room which opened into a hall that was decorated 
with fairy-like splendor. Twelve handsome fairy-youths approached them. 
Ever more servants appeared and busied themselves making all necessary 
preparations for a magnificent ball. Magical music sounded forth. The 
doors opened onto a huge dance hall, and everything was happy and gay.   
As morning approached they returned home just as they had come (and the 
shepherd boy was with them). They lay down on their beds as though nothing 
had happened, which their worn-out shoes disproved, then got up at the 
normal time.   
The king was waiting impatiently for any news that the shepherd boy might 
bring, and in only a few minutes he told him everything that had happened. 
The girls were summoned, and they denied everything. However, the cups and 
the twigs testified against them, and the littlest sister spoke against 
them as well, which was why the shepherd boy had awakened her.   
The king now fulfilled his promise, but the eleven girls were burned to 
death as sorceresses.