Well 
 
There was before now, a queen who was sick, and she had three daughters.
Said she to the one who was eldest, "Go to the well of true water, and
bring to me a drink to heal me."
 The daughter went, and she reached the well. A  losgann  (frog or
toad) came up to ask her if she would wed him, if she should get a drink
for her mother.
 "I will not wed thee, hideous creature! on any account," said she.
 "Well then," said he, "thou shalt not get the water."
 She went away home, and her mother sent away her sister that was
nearest to her, to seek a drink of the water. She reached the well, and
the toad came up and asked her if she would marry him if she should get
the water.
 "I won't marry thee, hideous creature!" said she.
 "Thou shalt not get the water then," said he.
 She went home, and her sister that was youngest went to seek the water.
When she reached the well the toad came up as he used, and asked her if
she would marry him if she should get the water.
 "If I have no other way to get healing for my mother, I will marry
thee," said she; and she got the water, and she healed her mother.
 They had betaken themselves to rest in the night when the toad came to
the door saying:
 
 
 
 
A chaomhag, a chaomhag, 
An cuimhneach leat 
An gealladh beag 
A thug thu aig 
An tobar dhomh? 
A ghaoil, a ghaoil! 
 
Gentle one, gentle one, 
Rememberest thou 
The little pledge 
Thou gavest me 
Beside the well? 
My love, my love!
 
 
 
 
When he was ceaselessly saying this, the girl rose and took him in, and
put him behind the door, and she went to bed; but she was not long laid
down, when he began again saying, everlastingly:
 A hàovaig, a hàovaig, 
An cuineach leat 
An geallug beag 
A hoog oo aig 
An tobar gaw, 
A géule, a géule. 
Then she got up and she put him under a noggin [small wooden pail]. That
kept him quiet a while. But she was not long laid down when he began
again, saying:
 A hàovaig, a hàovaig, 
An cuineach leat 
An geallug beag 
A hoog oo aig 
An tobar gaw, 
A géule, a géule. 
She rose again, and she made him a little bed at the fireside.
 But he was not pleased, and he began saying, "A chaoimheag, a
chaoimheag, an cuimhneach leat an gealladh beag a thug thu aig an tobar
dhomh, a ghaoil, a ghaoil."
 Then she got up and made him a bed beside her own bed.
 But he was without ceasing, saying, "A chaoimheag, a chaoimheag, an
cuimhneach leat an gealladh beag a thug thu aig an tobar dhomh, a ghaoil,
a ghaoil."
 But she took no notice of his complaining, till he said to her, "There
is an old rusted glave [sword] behind thy bed, with which thou hadst
better take off my head than be holding me longer in torture."
 She took the glave and cut the head off him. When the steel touched
him, he grew a handsome youth; and he gave many thanks to the young wife,
who had been the means of putting off him the spells under which he had
endured for a long time.
 Then he got his kingdom, for he was a king; and he married the
princess, and they were long alive and merry together.