1 
When the plague threatens a village, one must draw a circle around it with the handle of a copper kettle which comes from a house where all the inhabitants have died. The plague cannot cross this circle unless it is dragged across by force. The people in a village near Cottbus learned that this is true.  
The plague was raging in the countryside, but the peasants of the village had protected themselves with the circle that they had drawn around the village. One day the miller drove from this village to his mill outside of the village. On his way back he saw a woman dressed in white lying by the side of the road. She urgently begged him to take her along on his cart, for she too wanted to go to the village. The miller accepted the woman's request. On the way she asked about all the members of his household. The miller mentioned all of their names, except for one, which he happened to forget.  
When they came to the ring that had been drawn around the village, the woman fell from the cart. The man helped her back onto the cart, but she fell off again.  
The miller wanted to leave the woman lying there, but she begged and wailed until he took her hand and dragged her behind his cart, which the horses had pulled a few steps further along. He then helped the woman back onto the cart and arrived home with her without further difficulties. When he stopped in his yard, he noticed that the woman was gone.  
At first the miller had no further problems from these events. He sat down at table with his family. Suddenly he heard the door open, and the woman dressed in white stepped into the room. She took a wooden ladle from under her apron and with it hit on the head the one whose name the miller had forgotten to mention. This victim suddenly began to complain of a headache, the first sign of the plague.  
The miller then realized what a disaster he had caused by bringing the white-clad woman into the village. The plague was now in the village and almost all of the inhabitants died soon thereafter. 
 Branitz.  
 
 2 
Once the plague moved into a city, and many people died. No remedy against the disease could be found.  
One day a girl heard a bird calling out "Valerian, valerian."  
She told this to other people. Thus it was decided to look for the plant. After finding it, they boiled the plant. They gave the resulting brew to the sick people. Everyone who drank it was cured. 
 Leuthen [Lutynia].  
 
 3 
In Geierswalde in olden days a trench ran beneath a certain house. One could easily get into the trench. One day someone saw a ball in it. No one knew where it came from. On the day when the ball was noticed all the cattle in the village were attacked by an epidemic. Suspicions turned to the ball. To keep the cattle from dying the peasants rolled a large stone onto it. The epidemic died out immediately.  
Sometime later the house burned down. The trench caved in, but the stone and ball remained in place.  
A serious epidemic never again broke out in the village, but the after-effects of the ball still can be felt: Peasants who spread manure on a Saturday find that their cattle are struck with a disease. Because of this no one in the village dares to do such work on a Saturday.  
Geierswalde.  
 
 4 
A peasant was driving home. His wagon was completely filled with people. On the way a woman standing at the side of the road asked for a ride. The peasant consented and made a place for her beside himself. However, he soon realized that something was not right with the woman. He asked her at least to do him no harm, and she promised to follow his wish. Then from beneath her clothes the woman pulled out a small wooden spoon and touched everyone on the wagon with it, one after the other. Everyone whom she touched with the spoon died.  
Ströbitz,  
 
 5 
Once upon a time there were a king and queen who had no children. One day when they were walking in the forest they sat down together on a large black stone.  
The king said to his wife: "I would be happy if we had a child, whatever it was like."  
Then a voice rang out from the stone: "A year from now you shall have a child."  
The year passed, and the queen gave birth to a daughter as black as ebony. The princess died when she was twelve years old. Her body was carried in an open black coffin into the church and placed before the altar. A soldier stood guard in front of it.  
The next morning the princess was in the coffin, but the soldier had disappeared. A soldier had to stand watch the next night as well, but the following morning he too had disappeared. Thus it continued for an entire year. All the guards mysteriously disappeared, but the princess in the coffin remained unchanged. 
Finally a soldier had to stand guard again. This soldier had said goodbye to his family because he believed that the next morning he too would be gone. Standing alone by the coffin in church, all kinds of thoughts occurred to him. He thought about crawling under the coffin, and that is what he did -- right at the head of the coffin. The clock struck twelve, and the princess sat up, smacking her lips like a pig.  
She quickly jumped out of the coffin and wanted to eat the guard, but seeing no one, she said: "Didn't my father send me a sacrifice today?"  
Then she began to search. She finally found the soldier. Seeing him beneath the head of the coffin, she said: "You have redeemed me. I don't attack what is behind me. Do you know who I am? I am the plague."  
She uttered a great curse on the people, and then she disappeared. The next morning the soldier related everything he had experienced during the night.  
Vetschau.  
 
 This story combines a type 307 folktale ("The Vampire Bride") with a plague legend.  
 
 
 6 
At the end of the last century [1700s], the Missen peasants found in their field a sinister-looking, very old man. The old man said he was very weak because he had been underway a long time. He asked to be lifted onto a wagon or otherwise be carried into the village. But the peasants mercilessly left him lying there in the field.  
Another peasant came driving by with a load of firewood.  
The old man asked again: "Take me with you."  
This peasant took pity. He pushed the wood aside and helped the man onto the wagon. Arriving at home, the peasant made a bed for the old man and laid him on it.  
Then the old man said: "Out of gratitude that you brought me here, I want to save you from death. I am the forerunner of the plague. If you want to preserve your life and that of your family, leave Missen at once. Move into the open field near the river. Don't return to the village until a white goose approaches you swimming on the river."  
A short time later a deadly plague broke out in Missen. The peasant gathered up his things, and he and his family moved into the open field with their cattle and everything that they could carry away. The peasant must have spent many months there, when suddenly the water rose greatly in the river. The next day a white goose approached them, swimming on the river. Then the peasant moved back to Missen with his family.  
Meanwhile, three quarters of the Missen residents had died.  
The place where the peasant lived in the field is called "the shack" still today.  
Missen.