There was once a poor peasant who tilled a small field that belonged to
a rich landowner. One day while he was plowing, his plow struck something
so violently that it could not be moved. At first the man thought that it
was a stone, but when he looked more carefully he found that it was a
large chest full of old coins. It was gold and silver money that had
probably been hidden there many hundred years ago in war times. 
 The peasant filled a bag with the money and dragged it home, for he
thought that he had as good a right to keep the money as anyone else. The
original owner had, of course, died many generations ago. In spite of
that, he feared that the landowner would claim and seize the money when he
learned that it had been found in his field. So the peasant said nothing
to anybody except his wife about the find, and he begged her to keep
silent about it. 
 But she could not keep the secret, and had to tell some of her friends
about the good fortune. To be sure she asked each one separately not to
tell anybody; but as they could not keep the secret either, at last the
news of the discovery of the treasure came to the ears of the
landowner. 
 Soon after that he rode out to the peasant's cottage, which lay far out
on a lonely heath. There was, however, nobody at home except the woman,
for her husband had just gone to town to get some money changed. So when
the landowner asked the woman about the matter, she told him all that she
knew -- that her husband had found a chest full of money out in the field,
and that he was not at home now, and that she did not know where he had
put the money. The owner then said that he would return another time, and
make further inquiry about the money. 
 When the peasant came home, his wife told him all that had happened;
nevertheless, he did not reproach her. The next day he took his horses and
wagon and asked his wife to accompany him to the town. There he exchanged
all his old money for new coins, and invested the proceeds carefully and
to good advantage. Then be bought a bushel of little rolls, which he put
into a large bag. The man and his wife ate and drank to their hearts
content, and towards evening they started on their homeward journey. 
 It was late in the autumn, and it was raining and blowing hard as they
drove home in the dark. But the wine she had drunk had gone to the head of
the wife, and she slept soundly on the back seat. After they had gone for
some distance, she was awakened by a roll that fell on her head, and
immediately after that another one fell into her lap; and as soon as she
fell asleep, rolls again began to rain down upon her. These her husband
was throwing into the air so that they should fall upon her. 
 "But what is happening?" the woman called to her husband, "it seems to
me that it is raining rolls." 
 "Yes," said her husband, "that is just what it is doing; we are having
terrible weather." 
 As they were passing the landowner's house, the woman was awakened by
the braying of a donkey. 
 "What was that?" she exclaimed, feeling very uneasy. 
 "Well, I hardly like to say," replied her husband, "but if I must tell
the truth, it was the devil who once loaned our landlord some money, and
is now tormenting him because he will not pay the interest; he is
thrashing him with a horsewhip." 
 "Hurry up," said the woman, "and get away from here as fast as you
can." So the man whipped up his horses, and at last they reached home safe
and sound. 
 But when they were home the husband said, "Listen, wife, I heard some
bad news when we were in town. The enemy is in our land and this night he
will be in our neighborhood. So you must crawl into the potato cellar in
order to be out of danger, while I shall stay up stairs and protect our
property as well as I can." 
 So the peasant's wife went down into the cellar, while her husband took
his gun and went outside, and shot and cried out and made a great noise.
This he kept up all night, and towards morning he told his wife that she
could come up. "Fortunately," he said, "I was able to hold my own. I shot
down many of the enemy, who at last were compelled to retire, taking with
them their dead and wounded." 
 "Thank God," she said, "that everything has turned out well; I was
frightened nearly to death." 
 A few days after that the landowner rode out and found the peasant
standing before his cottage. "Where is the treasure that you found in my
field?" he asked him. The man answered that he did not know anything about
a treasure. 
 "Oh, nonsense," said the landowner, "it will not do you any good to
deny it, for your wife told me all about it herself." 
 "That is quite possible," said the man, "for my wife is sometimes a
little queer, and one can not always believe all that she says." And he
touched his forehead as he spoke. 
 Then the landowner called the woman and asked whether it were not true
that she had confessed to him that her husband had found a chest full of
money in the field. 
 "Certainly," she said, "and I was with him in town when he exchanged
the old money for new coins." 
 "When was that?" asked the landlord. 
 "Why that was the time we had the frightful storm when it rained bread
rolls." 
 "Nonsense," said he; "when was that?" 
 "It was on the day of the great battle that was fought on our field,
after the enemy had invaded our country." 
 "What battle, and what enemy?" said the landlord, "I think that the
woman is crazy. But tell me at once, when was it that you were in town to
exchange the money?" 
 Then the woman wept, and much as she disliked to do so, she had to say
it, "It was the same evening that the devil was tormenting you and beating
you because you would not pay him what you owed him." 
 "What are you saying?" screamed the landowner, in a rage; "I'll thrash
you for your lying nonsense." And with that he gave her a blow with his
whip and dashed out of the door and rode away, and never again asked about
the treasure. The peasant, however, bought a large farm in another part of
the country and lived there happily with his wife.