Once upon a time an old woman sat spinning in a room at the top of a high 
tower. Beneath her chair Chaton, her cat, lay peacefully sleeping. All of 
a sudden the spinning wheel jarred and made a loud creaking sound. 
Startled out of his sleep, Chaton the Cat rushed out of the room and 
bolted down the stairs as though a thousand demons were at his heels.   
In the yard he passed the house dog who was sitting in front of his 
kennel.   
"Hallo, Chaton!" cried the dog. "Where are you going to in such a hurry?" 
  
"I am fleeing the country," answered Chaton. "I have just heard the 
sounding of the last trump! The end of the world is at hand!"   
"If that is so," said the dog, "I would like to run away too. May I come 
with you?"    
"Certainly," answered Chaton. "Seat yourself on my beautiful curly tail." 
  
So the dog perched himself on the cat's tail, and off they went together. 
A little farther on they came to the farm gate, and there, perched on the 
topmost rail, was the cock.   
"Whither away, Chaton?" asked the cock. "You seem to be in haste."   
"Yes," said Chaton. "I have heard the last trump, which proves that the 
world is coming to an end, and I want to get safely away before that 
happens."   
"Take me with you, Chaton dear," said the cock.   
"By all means," answered the cat. "Jump on to my beautiful curly tail 
beside the dog."   
So the cock perched himself on Chaton's tail, and now there were two 
passengers. Away went the cat even faster than before, so as to make up 
for lost time, and presently they passed a rabbit who was nibbling the 
grass in a field.   
"Chaton, Chaton," cried the rabbit, "why are you running so quickly?"   
"Don't stop me!" answered the cat.  "I've heard the last trump! The end of 
the world is coming!"   
"Oh, dear me!" cried the rabbit. "What an unfortunate thing! Don't leave 
me here, Chaton, for I am afraid to face the end of the world."   
"Very well," said Chaton. "Jump on to my beautiful curly tail with the dog 
and the cock, and I'll take you with me."   
So the rabbit also perched himself on the cat's tail, and now there were 
three of them riding there. Off went the cat again, but not so quickly 
this time, because of the weight on his tail, and before very long he came 
to a pond by the side of which a goose was standing.   
"Now then, now then, what's the hurry?" asked the goose. "If you run so 
fast you'll overheat your blood and die of a fever."   
"It's all very well to scoff," answered the cat, "but you must know that 
the end of the world is coming. I have heard the last trump sound!"   
"My goodness!" said the goose. "This is dreadful! Take me with you, 
Chaton, and I'll be grateful for ever."   
"Very well," said the cat. "Jump on to my beautiful curly tail with the 
dog and the fox and the rabbit."   
So the goose also perched herself on the cat's tail, so now there were 
four passengers, and that made five altogether who were running away to 
escape the end of the world. All that day the cat kept on running, and 
towards dusk they came to a forest.   
"This seems a good place to rest," said Chaton. "Now then, master cock, 
fly to the top of a tree and see if you can espy a house in which we can 
take shelter."   
The cock flew to the top of a high tree and from there he saw a number of 
lights twinkling in the distance. The five fugitives thereupon set off in 
the direction from which the lights shone, and before long they came to a 
little village. All the people of the village had left their houses and 
were gathered together in the square, round a man dressed all in red, with 
a big red feather in his cap, who was addressing them.   
Chaton and his companions pressed close to the edge of the crowd and were 
just in time to hear these words: "Whoever finds the ring," said the man 
with the red feather," and places it on the table in my palace tomorrow 
before dawn, shall have the five bags of gold which hang on my saddle 
bow." Having said this, the man in red mounted his horse and rode away. 
  
Chaton went up to a little peasant who was standing in the crowd. "Tell 
me, gossip," said he, "who is the man with the red feather, and what's all 
this about a ring and five bags of gold?"   
"Why," said the peasant, "the man in red is the king of this country. He 
had a valuable ring which was kept in a tiny wooden case on the table by 
his bed. This afternoon a magpie flew in through the window, snatched up 
the case, and bore it away to its nest in the topmost boughs of the walnut 
tree on the village green. The king wants his ring back again, and will 
give the five bags of gold to anybody who will recover it for him."   
"I see," said Chaton; "and why don't you climb the walnut tree and get the 
ring?"   
"Because I have too much respect for my neck," answered the peasant, "and 
so has everybody else here. The boughs at the top of the tree where the 
nest is are so thin and slender that they would not bear the weight of a 
child, let alone a grown man. Gold is good, but whole limbs are better, 
that's what I say!"   
"And I!"   
"And I!" echoed other villagers who had been listening to this 
conversation.   
"In my belief you are quite right," said Chaton seriously. "Let the king 
risk his own life if he is so anxious to recover his ring."   
But afterwards, when he had withdrawn with his companions to the shelter of 
the wood, he sang a different tune. "My friends," said he, "our fortunes 
are made! As soon as all is quiet I will climb the tree and get the ring; 
then you shall sit on my tail again and we'll all go off together to the 
king's palace and get the bags of gold!"   
He danced for joy, and the dog and the cock and the goose and the rabbit 
danced with him. An hour afterwards the cat climbed the tree and came down 
safely with the little wooden box. The rabbit gnawed it open with his 
teeth, and sure enough there was the ring inside it.    
"Now," said Chaton, "we will all go to the king's palace, but I am very 
tired with running all day. I propose that the dog takes a turn at 
carrying us."   
This was agreed. The other four got on to the dog's back and clung there 
while he ambled off as fast as he could along the road towards the palace. 
Just before dawn they came to a wide river. Now it was the turn of the 
goose to work for the common good. She was quite used to the water, and 
one by one she took the other animals across on her back. Shortly 
afterwards they arrived at the king's palace, and the cock flew up through 
the open window of the king's room with the ring in his beak, and placed 
it on the table by the bed. Then he awoke the king with a loud crow and 
claimed the reward, which was willingly given.   
In great glee at their good fortune the animals went on their way, each 
with his bag of gold, and every one of them had by this time quite 
forgotten his fear about the coming of the end of the world. They went on 
and on until they came to a place where five ways met.   
Then Chaton said,  "Here we are at the parting of the ways. Let us each 
choose a road, and part good friends."   
At this moment there came along a pig with a knife and fork stuck in his 
back. In his right ear was salt; in his left ear pepper, and mustard was 
on his tail, so that everybody who was hungry had only to cut themselves a 
slice of meat and sit down to feast.   
Our friends gladly availed themselves of this good chance, and I who tell 
you this story would willingly have done the same, but as soon as I went 
up to the pig, he ran at me with his head down and sent me flying through 
the air, and through the window of my house, where I fell into the chair 
in which I am now sitting, finishing this story of the wonderful 
adventures of Chaton, the dog, the cock, the rabbit, and the goose.