A soldier, returning home following a long war, had run out of money, so 
that he had nothing left. He met an old woman, whom he asked for a small 
gift. The woman was willing, and gave him her old apron. She told him to 
walk up a brook with it until he came to a willow tree. He should then 
climb this tree and let himself down inside it. Taking leave of her he 
asked her if he could do something for her on the way.   
"Oh yes," she answered. "Bring me the tinderbox which is there. I forgot 
it."   
The soldier went to the tree and climbed down inside it. Below there stood 
a large chest, and sitting on it was a dog who had eyes in his head that 
were as large as saucers. A second chest was also there, and on it sat a 
dog with eyes as large as plates, and a third chest was there with eyes as 
large as serving platters.   
With no further ado the soldier set all three dogs onto the old apron and 
opened the chests. In the first one was copper money, in the second one 
silver money, and in the third one minted gold. From this chest he took as 
much as he could carry, not forgetting to pick up the tinderbox as well. 
Then he climbed out of the hollow tree and went on his way.   
Not long afterward he again met the old woman, who asked him for the 
tinderbox, but he did not want to give it to her. They began quarreling 
over it, and the soldier struck the old woman dead.   
He now had money enough and was able to live well, but he spent so much 
that it soon came to an end. With time his many friends abandoned him, 
until at last he was living desolate and alone.   
One day he wanted to light a pipe, and for this he used the tinderbox, 
which he had long forgotten. He suddenly discovered what the tinderbox was 
good for. The three dogs immediately appeared and asked him what he 
wished. He told them to bring him some money. Less than a half hour later 
the dogs returned with a large sum of money.    
Now he was once again wealthy, and thought he would like to marry the 
princess, who lived in the city. But he did not know where to begin, 
because he was not at all handsome. Then he called his dogs and asked them 
if they knew how to make it happen.   
"We can do that," replied the dogs, and ran away.  
That evening all three went to the castle and brought the princess on 
their backs to the soldier. Afterward they took her back to the castle in 
the same way.   
The next morning the princess told about this, as though it had been a 
dream. However, the king was concerned and posted guards outside her 
bedroom door. When the dogs returned the next night the guards were 
asleep, so the dogs took the princess with them again. However, one 
soldier saw them, followed them, and drew a mark on the house that they 
ran into. But the dogs observed this, and they drew marks on all the 
houses, so that no one could know where the princess had been. On the 
third evening the dogs fetched the princess again. This time the soldier 
scattered peas in front of the house, but the dogs gathered up all the 
peas.   
On the fourth day the soldier himself went to the king and asked for his 
daughter's hand in marriage, but the king had him thrown into prison. Now 
he was lost, for he did not have his tinderbox with him, and was not able 
to call the dogs. He thought long and hard how he might escape, but 
nothing came to him. Then a boy walked beneath his window, and the soldier 
asked him to do him a favor, the last one, because in only a few days he 
was to die. The boy was willing.   
He asked him to fetch the tinderbox that was in his room, and described 
exactly where it was. The boy soon returned with the tinderbox, and the 
soldier pulled it up to his barred window with a string.   
"Now everything is all right," he thought. Later when he was standing at 
the place of execution he asked permission to smoke one last time, and 
this was granted him. He had scarcely struck a light when the three dogs 
arrived. He said to them, "Attack!" and they tore apart the judges and the 
king. Then the soldier married the princess. He lived very happily with 
her, and if they have not died then they are still alive.