A hare insulted the tortoise upon account of his slowness, and vainly 
boasted of her great speed in running. "Let us make a match," replied the 
tortoise. "I will run with you five miles for five pounds, and the fox 
yonder shall be umpire of the race."  
The hare agreed, and away they both started together. But the hare, by 
reason of her exceeding swiftness, outran the tortoise to such a degree, 
that she made a jest of the matter; and finding herself a little tired 
squatted in a tuft of fern, that grew by the way, and took a nap; thinking 
that if the tortoise went by, she could at any time fetch him up, with all 
the ease imaginable. In the meanwhile, the tortoise came jogging on, with 
a slow but continued motion; and the hare, out of a too great security and 
confidence of victory, oversleeping herself, the tortoise arrived at the 
end of the race first.  
 
THE APPLICATION  
 
Industry and application to business makes amends for the want of a quick 
and ready wit. Hence it is, that the victory is not always to the strong, 
nor the race to the swift. Men of fine parts are apt to despise the 
drudgery of business; but by affecting to show the superiority of their 
genius, upon many occasions, they run into too great an extreme the other 
way; and the administration of their affairs is ruined through idleness 
and neglect. What advantage has a man from the fertility of his invention, 
and the vivacity of his imagination, unless his resolutions are executed 
with a suitable and uninterrupted rapidity? In short, your men of wit and 
fire, as they are called, are often times sots, slovens, and lazy fellows; 
they are generally proud and conceited to the last degree; and in the 
main, not the fittest persons for either conversation or business. -- Such 
is their vanity, they think the sprightliness of their humor inconsistent 
with a plain sober way of thinking and speaking, and able to atone for all 
the little neglects of their business and person. But the world will not 
be thus imposed upon: the man who would gain the esteem of others, and 
make his own fortune, must be one that carries his point effectually, and 
finishes his course without swerving and loitering. Men of dull parts, and 
slow apprehension, assisted by a continued diligence, are more likely to 
attain this, than your brisk retailers of wit, with their affected spleen 
and indolence. And, if business be but well done, no matter whether it be 
done by the sallies of a refined wit, or the considering head of a plain 
plodding man.