A millet trader, traveling from village to village, came to a house 
where a woman was weeping and weeping. "I have 
been to the other world and back," he said, to emphasize the length and 
difficulty of his journey. Then he added, "Why are you crying?" 
 "My daughter died six days ago," said the woman. "My Latti is now in 
the other world. Did you meet her there?" 
 The millet trader said, "Don't cry, mother. I did meet her there. She 
is now in the other world, and I am to marry that 
very Latti. In fact, I have come for Latti's necklaces and bracelets. She 
sent me for them." 
 The woman quickly arose and cooked an abundant meal for the trader. 
 "Mother," he said, "I must go immediately. Where is my father-in-law?" 
 "He is plowing," she said. "Wait until he comes." 
 "I cannot," he said. "Our wedding feast is tomorrow. I must be off now 
to go to the wedding." 
 So the woman gave the trader her daughter's gold and silver necklaces 
and bracelets. These he took, along with his 
bundles of millet, and went away. 
 When the woman's husband returned from plowing, he found her laughing. 
"What are you laughing at?" he asked. 
 The woman replied, "Why shouldn't I laugh? Our son-in-law came." 
 "What son-in-law?" the man asked. 
 The woman said over and over again, "Latti's man came. Latti's man 
came. Our son-in-law, to whom our daughter is 
given in the other world. It is true." 
 The man asked, "Can anyone in the other world come to this world? Did 
you cook for him and feed him?" 
 The woman replied, "Of course I cooked for him and fed him! And he said 
that Latti had told him to fetch her necklaces 
and bracelets for her. So I gave them to him as well." 
 Then the man said, "Where is our horse, and which way did the man go?" 
Mounting his horse he went to seek the millet trader. 
 The trader, walking along in a rice field, looked back and saw a man 
approaching on horseback. He said, "That man is coming to seize me." 
 The trader climbed into a nearby tree. The man tied his horse to a root 
of the tree and then climbed into the tree to 
catch the trader. But the trader dropped from the end of a branch, cut the 
horse's tether, placed his millet bundles and other 
goods on the horse, mounted it, and rode off. 
 The man descended slowly from the tree and called out to the fleeing 
trader, "Tell Latti that your mother-in-law gave 
you a few things for her arms and neck, but that your father-in-law gave 
you a horse." 
 Having returned home, he said to the woman, "It is true. He really is 
Latti's man. I gave him the horse, so he would not have to go on foot." 
 The woman said, "Isn't it so indeed! I told you so." 
 Then the millet trader returned to his own village, where he 
remained.