There was a report that the Fians (Fingalians) were asleep in this
rock, and that if anyone would enter it a blow the wooden crier (whistle),
which lay beside Finn, three times, they would rise up alive and well as
they formerly were. 
 A smith who lived in the island heard the report, and resolved that he
would attempt to enter the rock. He reached the place where it was; and,
having formed a good idea of the keyhole, he returned to the smithy, and
made a key which fitted the hole. He then went back to the rock, and, as
soon as he turned the key in the hole, the door opened, and he saw a very
great and wide place before him, and exceedingly big men lying on the
floor. One man, bigger than the rest, was lying in their midst, having a
large hollow baton of wood lying beside him. 
 He thought that this was the wooden crier (whistle), but it was so
large that he was afraid that he could not lift it, much less blow it. He
stood for a time looking at it, but he at last said to himself that, as he
came so far, he would try at any rate. He laid hold of the wooden crier,
and with difficulty raised its end up to his mouth. He blew it with all
his might, and so loud was the sound it produced that he thought the rock
and all that was over it came down on the top of him. 
 The huge unwieldy men who lay on the floor shook from the tops of their
heads to the soles of their feet. He gave another blast on the wooden
crier, and with one spring they turned on their elbows. Their fingers were
like the prongs of wooden grapes [large forks used in sea harvesting], and
their arms like beams of bog oak. Their size and the terrible appearance
they had put him in such fear that he threw the wooden crier from him, and
sprang out. 
 They were then crying after him, "Worse have you left us than as you
found us." 
 But he looked not behind him until he got outside and shut the door. He
then drew the key out of the hole, and threw it out into the lake which is
near the rock, and which is called to this day the Lake of the Smith's
Rock.