Approximately a quarter hour west of the parsonage of Enneberg stands
Asch, the knightly ancestral home of the Lords of Prack. The Cadorinis are
said to have set it afire during their military attack in the year 1487.
It still stands as it was rebuilt afterward.
 Adjacent to the castle is a garden, surrounded by a wall that is
overgrown with elderberry and currant bushes. Not far from this seat of
nobility flows the brook  Rü Fortiang  toward St. Vigiler's
Brook. The following legend deals with this place.
 A Knight Prack went to war, leaving his expectant wife at home.
 One day a beggar woman came to Castle Asch and asked for alms. The
noblewoman was hardhearted and had the old woman turned away. The woman
left angrily, shouting up to the windows, "As punishment you shall bring
twelve children into the world at one time."
 And thus it happened. The woman brought twelve boys into the world at
one time, but she kept only one of them, the one who pleased her most. She ordered a maidservant to drown the others in a nearby brook.
 At the same time the knight returned home from the field. He met the
maidservant with the eleven children in her apron. He asked her what she
was carrying away, and the maidservant told him everything.
 The knight had the eleven boys raised by strangers. At home he acted as if he knew nothing about the event. He caressed the boy that his wife had kept and attended to his knightly upbringing.
 When the sons had grown up he sponsored a splendid feast and told his
wife that he had invited eleven magnificent knights. The woman considered herself fortunate to be able to host such distinguished guests. She did everything to prepare a distinguished meal.
 The eleven knights finally made their entry, and the feast began. As
they ate, the knight entertained his guests with stories of his war deeds.
Finally he turned the conversation to a discussion of various kinds of
misdeeds.
 Soon thereafter the knight began telling a story, "Once there was a
raven-mother who brought twelve boys into the world. She wanted to kill
eleven of them and to keep and raise only one. However, without her
knowledge, she was hindered in her criminal intentions. The eleven boys
were rescued and brought up away from home. What punishment would such a
woman deserve?"
 The wife, who had no idea that anyone knew anything about her
secret except for the maidservant, and who thought that her eleven boys
had long been dead, replied with indignation, "Such a raven-mother should be entombed alive."
 With that the knight turned to her and said calmly, "You yourself are
this raven-mother, and my eleven knightly guests are our sons whom you
wanted to drown.  God decreed otherwise, and fortunately they are still
alive. Your own judgment will now be carried out on you."
 The wife confessed her dastardly intentions, embraced and kissed her
twelve sons, and was led away without resistance.
 Her husband allowed her to select the place where she would be
entombed.  She chose the garden wall of their castle, and asked that she
be allowed to put into her mouth a hollowed-out elderberry branch, such as grew on the garden wall, so that she could breathe. If the branch were to grow into an independent elderberry bush, then she was saved. If, however, it were to wither, then she was condemned to the torments of hell.  Then she was entombed.
 "Thank God," added hard-of-hearing old Frau Agreiter, who told me this story, "as you can see, the elderberry twig has grown into a splendid bush.  The poor woman has done her penance and is now in heaven, for that was a long time ago."
 Nonetheless, it can be spooky from time to time at Castle Asch,
especially in the subterranean chambers.  It is said that the great
treasure of the Bracuns, an immeasurable amount of gold, is buried there, and also Saint George's saddle, upon which he sat when he killed the dragon.  When the Pracks rode in that saddle they were said to be
invincible.