A Legend from Dauphiné  
Once upon a time there was a man who had twelve children, and a thirteenth came to him. Very sadly he was walking along the path. He met a tall woman: It was Death.  
She said to him: "What is it, my friend, that you are so sad?"  
"In order to have my child baptized, I am looking for godfathers and godmothers, and I cannot find any."  
The tall woman said, "Well! I will be your little one's godmother."  
When the child was grown, he was very intelligent. His godmother had him raised to be a doctor. She gave him the gift of being a skilled doctor.  
Before he went to his first patient, Death gave him this secret: "My godson, if you see me at the head of the bed, you can say that the patient will not recover, but if you see me at the foot of the bed, you can say with complete certainty that you will heal him."  
This secret gave the doctor a great reputation, and the king heard about his great skill.  
The king's daughter became ill.  
The king summoned the doctor and said to him: "If you cure my daughter, I will give her to you in marriage."  
When the doctor came to the patient, Death was at her head.  
The doctor thought: "What should I do?"  
He immediately brought in four men and had them turn the bed so that Death was now at the foot. Thus the skillful doctor cured the king's daughter, and the king showered him with riches.  
However, Death called him to the underground where the candles of life were, and admonished him that if he ever returned, he would die.  
Death forgave him the first time. Then the king became ill, and he called the doctor back. Death was at the head of the bed.  
The doctor used the same stratagem as for the girl: He turned the foot of the bed to the head, and Death thus found himself at the foot. The king was healed.  
However, Death called the skillful doctor back to the underground and told him that he had broken his promise and abused her kindness. Death showed him his candle which was burnt up. The doctor had to die. All his gifts and all his fortune were of no use to him against Death.