A girl belonging to a village of four underground lodges near Lytton
refused all suitors who had come from Spences Bridge, Nicola, Kamloops,
and Lillooet, although they brought as marriage gifts robes,
 dentalia , and other valuables. Her parents and the chief of the
village were angry with her for refusing so many good suitors. Therefore
she became sad, and would have committed suicide had not her brothers
talked kindly with her.
 One morning, when she had gone to the river to bathe and to draw water
for the house, she thought, "I wish a man from far away would come and
take me!"
 Crow-Man, who lived at the mouth of the river, heard her. He said, "A
pretty girl far away wants a husband. I wish I could go to her!"
 At once a man appeared to him and said, "I will help you, if you will
do as I direct you. You must shut your eyes and pray to me, and I shall
grant your desire. Now begin!"
 Crow-Man knelt down and prayed that he might be enabled to go to the
girl. His eyes closed while he was praying. Then his helper told him to
open his eyes and look at himself. He saw that he had been transformed
into a crow, with wings and with black feathers all over his body. He was
afraid, and remained silent.
 His helper told him that he would not be a crow always, but only for
the journey to the girl. He said, "Now, fly up the river! And early in the
morning you will see a girl bathing near four underground lodges. She is
the wife that you desire!"
 It was springtime, when crows come up the river. Three mornings the
girl had repeated her supplication for a husband. Early the fourth morning
she went to the accustomed place, put down her bark water baskets, took
off her clothes, and went to bathe. She had just made her supplication
when a crow came up the river and passed close to her head.
 She called him nasty names and said, "Why do you fly so close to my
head, you black ugly bird? You will blind me with the dirt of your feet."
 It was Crow-Man, who was acting under the instructions of his helper.
He flew past out of sight, alighted on the ground, shut his eyes, and
prayed. When he opened his eyes, he was a man again. He walked back to
where the girl was washing herself in the water, and sat down on her
clothes. Presently she saw him, and asked him to leave. She pleaded with
him to go away, but he paid no heed.
 When she had asked him four times, he replied, "If you will become my
wife, I will release your clothes."
 She assented, saying, "You must be my husband, for you have seen my
naked body."
 Crow-Man shut his eyes and prayed. When he opened them again, a large
beaverskin robe was there, and a dugout cedar canoe. He gave the robe to
his wife. They embarked in the canoe and went downstream.
 As the girl did not return, the people looked for her. They found her
clothes and the water baskets, and thought that she had drowned herself.
 She lived in her husband's country for a while, and bore a son to him.
When the boy was growing up, he wished to see his grandparents. Every day
he asked for them. Finally his parents determined to take him to see them.
 They went up the river in a canoe loaded with presents of many kinds,
and eventually reached Lytton. They moored their canoe at the watering
place. The weather was warm, and the woman's parents were living in a mat
tent. Her younger sister came down to draw water and discovered them. She
went back with the news; and the parents cleaned their house, and made
ready to receive their son-in-law. He gave his father-in-law all the
presents, and the people danced to welcome them. He made up his mind to
live there and became an adopted member of the tribe.