Where was it? Where was it not?  
Once upon a time there was a poor man who had as many children as there are holes in a sieve, even more. When his last one was born, he could no longer find a godfather, for everyone he knew was already a godfather.  
So he went away and wandered through seven countries, and then seven more, to see if he could find a godfather somewhere.  
Walking without stopping to rest, he suddenly came upon the Lord Jesus, who asked him: "Where are you going, poor man?"  
"I'm looking for a godfather for my little child," he replied. "I hope that I can find one."  
"Listen," said the Lord Jesus to him. "Don't look any further. I will serve as your little child's godfather right away."  
Then the poor man said: "Who are you then?"  
"I am Jesus."  
"Oh!" said the poor man. "I can't use you. You only love the good ones."  
So he went on again without stopping to rest, and then he came upon Death.  
Death spoke to him: "Where are you going, poor man?"  
"I'm looking for a godfather for my son," he replied. "I hope that I can find one."  
Then Death said to him: "Listen. Don't look any further. I will serve as your son's godfather right away."  
Then the poor man said: "Who are you?  
"I am Death."  
"All right," said the poor man. "I will take you for my son's godfather, for you love the bad as well as the good."  
Then Death said to him: "Come walk along with me a little longer. I want to change into my Sunday clothes; otherwise people will recognize me straight away."  
So the poor man went to Death's house. Here he was very frightened, because many large and small lights were burning in the house.  
He asked Death: "What are all those lights?"  
Death said: "These are the lights of life. Every human being has one here, and they can only live as long as their light burns."  
Then the poor man said to Death: "Be so kind as to show me mine."  
Death showed him one that could only burn for a very little while longer.  
Then the poor man said to Death: "Listen, Godfather! Add a little candle-stub to my light; otherwise it soon will go out."  
But Death said, "That's not possible, comrade! I mustn't make the lights burn any longer. That would make Resurrection angry with me, for then she would not find anyone to awaken."  
But the poor begged and begged, until Death finally added a candle-stub to his light.  
Death next went to the poor man's house, where there was a tremendous baptismal feast. Death got a little drunk. He was so merry that he gave the poor man power to heal any sick person (even one close to death), if he but touched their bed, or stood in front of them.  
However, if would ever say the Lord's Prayer or Amen, then he himself would soon die.  
Because of his great power the poor man soon became very famous.  He was called everywhere to heal the sick: to noble lords and to kings. He became very rich.  
When Death took leave from him, he told him to visit him quite often. But now it was a few years later, and he had not yet visited Death. Finally he thought that it was time for him to visit Death.  He had his beautiful silvery-white horses harnessed to the glass carriage (for he had become very rich), and galloped to Death.  
Approaching Death's house, he found a child crying in the street; he immediately took him into the carriage and asked him why he was crying.  
"Oh," said the little child, "I'm crying because my dear father hit me because I didn't know a word when I was praying."  
The man asked: "What was the word?  Our father ?"  
"No, that wasn't it," said the child.  
The man then said all the words of the Lord's Prayer to the end -- but the forgotten word wasn't there.  
 At last he said: "Was it  Amen ?"  
"Yes, that's it," said Death, for it was really him in the form of a crying child. " Amen  for you, comrade.  Amen! "  
Then the man died on the spot. But his sons shared the great wealth and are still alive if they have not died.