Celtic Folklore 
Mr. [William] Jones mentions that, within his memory, there were still 
people in his neighborhood who believed that the fairies stole unbaptized 
children and placed their own in their stead: he gives the following 
story about the farmer's wife of Dyffryn Mymbyr, near Capel Curig, and 
her infant:
  
[Rhys quotes the story in Welsh, then gives the following English 
translation.]
  
This woman had given birth to a healthy and vigorous child at the 
beginning of the harvest, one wretched and inclement summer.  As the 
homestead was a considerable distance from church or chapel, and the 
weather so very rainy, it was neglected to baptize the child at the usual 
time, that is to say, before it was eight days old.  
 
One fine day, in the middle of this wretched harvest, the mother went to 
the field with the rest of the family to try to save the harvest, and 
left her baby sleeping in its cradle in its grandmother's charge, who was 
so aged and decrepit as to be unable to go much about.  The old woman 
fell asleep, and, while she was in that state, the  Tylwyth Teg 
 came in and took away the baby, placing another in its stead.  
 
Very shortly the latter began to whine and groan, so that the grandmother 
awoke: she went to the cradle, where she saw a slender, wizened old man 
moving restlessly and peevishly about.  "Alas! alas!" said she, "the old 
 Tylwyth  have been here"; and she at once blew in the horn to call 
the mother home, who came without delay.  
 
As she heard the crying in the cradle, she ran towards it, and lifted the 
little one without looking at him; she hugged him, put him to her breast, 
and sang lullaby to him, but nothing was of any avail, as he continued, 
without stopping, to scream enough to break her heart; and she knew not 
what to do to calm him.  At last she looked at him: she saw that he was 
not like her dear little boy, and her heart was pierced with agony.  She 
looked at him again, and the more she examined him the uglier he seemed 
to her.  
 
She sent for her husband home from the field, and told him to search for 
a skilled man somewhere or other; and, after a long search, he was told 
by somebody that the parson of Trawsfynyd was skilled in the secrets of 
the spirits; so he want to him.  
 
The latter bade him take a shovel and cover it with salt, and make the 
figure of the cross in the salt; then to take it to the chamber where the 
fairy child was, and, after taking care to open the window, to place the 
shovel on the fire until the salt was burnt.  This was done, and when the 
salt had got white hot, the peevish abortion went away, seen of no one, 
and they found the other baby whole and unscathed at the doorstep.