An uneasy peace ruled in Jerusalem. Saladin's victory against the
Crusaders had cost the Muslims dearly, both in the loss of troops and in
the depletion of the royal treasury. Saladin was resolved to rule with
civilized humanity as far as possible. But it was an uneasy peace, with
Jews, Christians, and the newly victorious Muslims all suspicious of one
another. 
 Thus when Saladin requested an audience with Nathan, a leading Jewish
merchant, the latter was very apprehensive about the Sultan's motivation.
Nathan was known far and wide not only for his successes in commerce, but
also for his skills in diplomacy and negotiation. Jews, Christians, and
Muslims alike called him Nathan the Wise. 
 Nathan's suspicions were well founded, for Saladin was indeed looking
to replenish his exhausted coffers with a loan or a gift from his wealthy
Jewish subject. Too civil to openly demand such a tribute from the
peace-loving Nathan, the Sultan instead masked his request in the form of
a theological question. 
 "Your reputation for wisdom is great," said the Sultan. "You must have
studied the great religions. Tell me, which is the best, Judaism, Islam,
or Christianity?" 
 "Sultan, I am a Jew," replied Nathan. 
 "And I a Muslim," interrupted Saladin, "and between us stands the
Christian. But the three faiths contradict one another. They cannot all be
true. Tell me the results of your own wise deliberations. Which religion
is best?" 
 Nathan recognized the trap at once. Any answer except "Islam" would
offend Saladin the Muslim, whereas any answer except "Judaism" would place
his own integrity under question. Thus, instead of giving a direct answer,
Nathan responded by relating a parable to Saladin: 
 
In the Orient in ancient times there lived a man who possessed a ring of
inestimable worth. Its stone was an opal that emitted a hundred colors,
but its real value lay in its ability to make its wearer beloved of God
and man. The ring passed from father to most favored son for many
generations, until finally its owner was a father with three sons, all
equally deserving. Unable to decide which of the three sons was most
worthy, the father commissioned a master artisan to make two exact copies
of the ring, then gave each son a ring, and each son believed that he
alone had inherited the original and true ring.
 But instead of harmony, the father's plan brought only discord to his
heirs. Shortly after the father died, each of the sons claimed to be the
sole ruler of the father's house, each basing his claim to authority on
the ring given to him by the father. The discord grew even stronger and
more hateful when a close examination of the rings failed to disclose any
differences. 
 
 "But wait," interrupted Saladin, "surely you do not mean to tell me
that there are no differences between Islam, Judaism, and
Christianity!" 
 "You are right, Sultan," replied Nathan. "Their teachings and practices
differ in ways that can be seen by all. However, in each case, the
teachings and practices are based on beliefs and faith, beliefs and faith
that at their roots are the same. Which of us can prove that our beliefs
and our faith are more reliable than those of others?" 
 "I understand," said Saladin. "Now continue with your tale." 
 "The story is nearly at its end," replied Nathan. 
 
The dispute among the brothers grew until their case was finally brought
before a judge. After hearing the history of the original ring and its
miraculous powers, the judge pronounced his conclusion: "The authentic
ring," he said, "had the power to make its owner beloved of God and man,
but each of your rings has brought only hatred and strife. None of you is
loved by others; each loves only himself. Therefore I must conclude that
none of you has the original ring. Your father must have lost it, then
attempted to hide his loss by having three counterfeit rings made, and
these are the rings that cause you so much grief."
 The judge continued: "Or it may be that your father, weary of the
tyranny of a single ring, made duplicates, which he gave to you. Let each
of you demonstrate his belief in the power of his ring by conducting his
life in such a manner that he fully merits -- as anciently promised -- the
love of God and man. 
 
 "Marvelous! Marvelous!" exclaimed Saladin. "Your tale has set my mind
at rest. You may go." 
 "Sultan, was there nothing else you wished from me?" asked Nathan. 
 "No. Nothing." 
 "Then may I take the liberty to make a request of you. My trade of late
has brought me unexpected wealth, and in these uncertain times I need a
secure repository. Would you be willing to accept my recent earnings as
loan or deposit?" 
 The Sultan gladly acceded to Nathan's wish. 
 And thus Saladin gained from his wise Jewish subject both material and
spiritual benefit, and Nathan the Wise found a safe haven for his wealth
and earned the respect of the Islamic Sultan.