An old man named Takahama lived in a little house behind the cemetery
of the temple of Sozanji. He was extremely amiable and generally liked by
his neighbors, though most of them considered him to be a little mad. His
madness, it would appear, entirely rested upon the fact that he had never
married or evinced desire for intimate companionship with women.
 One summer day he became very ill, so ill, in fact, that he sent for
his sister-in-law and her son. They both came and did all they could to
bring comfort during his last hours. While they watched, Takahama fell
asleep; but he had no sooner done so than a large white butterfly flew
into the room and rested on the old man's pillow. The young man tried to
drive it away with a fan; but it came back three times, as if loath to
leave the sufferer.
 At last Takahama's nephew chased it out into the garden, through the
gate, and into the cemetery beyond, where it lingered over a woman's tomb,
and then mysteriously disappeared. On examining the tomb the young man
found the name "Akiko" written upon it, together with a description
narrating how Akiko died when she was eighteen. Though the tomb was
covered with moss and must have been erected fifty years previously, the
boy saw that it was surrounded with flowers, and that the little water
tank had been recently filled.
 When the young man returned to the house he found that Takahama had
passed away, and he returned to his mother and told her what he had seen
in the cemetery.
 "Akiko?" murmured his mother. "When your uncle was young he was
betrothed to Akiko. She died of consumption shortly before her wedding
day. When Akiko left this world your uncle resolved never to marry, and to
live ever near her grave. For all these years he has remained faithful to
his vow, and kept in his heart all the sweet memories of his one and only
love. Every day Takahama went to the cemetery, whether the air was
fragrant with summer breeze or thick with falling snow. Every day he went
to her grave and prayed for her happiness, swept the tomb and set flowers
there. When Takahama was dying, and he could no longer perform his loving
task, Akiko came for him. That white butterfly was her sweet and loving
soul."