Tiring-tirang was a barrio in the town of Tang-Tang, situated at the foot of a hill which was called "La Campana" because of its shape. Around the hill, about a mile from the barrio, flowed the Malogo River, in which the people of the town used to bathe. It so happened that one time an epidemic broke out in the community, killing off all the inhabitants except one couple. This couple had an only son named Juan Pusong Tambi-Tambi.  
When Juan had reached his twelfth year, his father died. Consequently the boy had to go to work to earn money for the support of himself and his mother. At first Juan followed the occupation of his father, that of fisherman; but, seeing that he made little money from this, he decided to become a farmer. His mother had now reached the age of seventy (!), and was often sick. Juan frequently had to neglect his farm in order to take care of her.  
One day Juan went to Pit-Pit to buy medicine for his mother. On his way to the town he saw a flock of crows eating up his corn. He paid no attention to the birds; but on his way back, when he saw these same birds still eating his corn, he became angry. He picked up a stone about the size of his fist, and crept into a bush near by. He had hardly hidden himself when the birds heard a rustling, and began to fly off. Juan jumped up, and hurled his stone with such accuracy and force that one of the crows fell dead to the ground. He tied the dead crow to a bamboo pole, and planted it in the middle of his corn field. No sooner was he out of sight than the crows flew back to the field again; but when they saw their dead companion, they flew off, and never troubled Juan again.  
For six months Juan had no trouble from birds. He did not know, however, that not far from his field there was a monkey ( chongo ) living in a large tree. This monkey used to come to his field every day and steal two or three ears of corn. One day, as Juan was walking across his field, he saw many dead cornstalks.  
He said to himself, "I wonder who it is that comes here and steals my corn! I am no longer troubled by birds; and yet I find here many husks."  
He went home and made an image of a crooked old man like himself. This he covered with sticky wax. He placed it in the middle of the field.  
The next morning, when the sun was shining very brightly, the monkey felt hungry, so he ran towards the field to steal some corn to eat. There he saw the statue. Thinking that it was Juan, he decided to ask permission before he took any corn.  
"Good-morning, Juan!" said the monkey in a courteous tone; but the image made no reply. "You are too proud to bend your neck, Juan," continued the monkey. "I have only come to ask you for three or four ears of corn. I have not eaten since yesterday, you know; and if you deny me this request, I shall die before morning."  
The waxen statue still stood motionless.  
"Do you hear me, Juan?" said the monkey impatiently.  
Still the statue made no reply.  
"Since you are too proud to answer me, I will soon give you some presents. Look out!" he cried, and with his right paw he slapped the statue which he thought was Juan; but his paw stuck to the wax, and he could not get free. "Let my hand loose!" the monkey shouted, "or you will get another present."  
Then he slapped the statue with his left paw, and, as before, stuck fast.  
"You are foolish, Juan. If you do not let me go this very moment, I'll kick you."  
He did so, first with one foot, and then with the other. At last he could no longer move, and he began to curse the statue. Juan, who had been hiding in a bush near by, now presented himself, and said to the monkey, "Now I have caught you, you thief!"  
He would have killed the monkey at once, had not the monkey begged for mercy, and promised that he would at some future time repay him for his kindness if he would only spare his life. So Juan set the monkey free.  
It was now the month of April. The monkey, impatient to fulfil his word to Juan, went one day to the field, and there he found Juan hard at work.  
"Good-morning, Master Juan!" he cried. "I see that you are busy."  
"Busy indeed!" replied Juan.  
"Master Juan, do you want to marry the king's daughter? If you do, I'll arrange everything for you," said the monkey.  
Juan replied, "Yes," little thinking that what the monkey promised could be true.  
The monkey scampered off towards the market. When he entered the market, he saw a boy counting his money. The monkey pretended to be looking in the other direction, but walked towards the boy. When he saw that the money was fairly within his reach, he seized it and ran back to Juan.  
After telling his master what he had done, the monkey went to the king's palace, and said, "Sir, my master, Juan, wants to borrow your  ganta , for he desires to measure his money."  
The king gave him the  ganta . In three days the monkey appeared at the palace again to return the measure, in the bottom of which he stuck three centavos.  
"My master, Juan, thanks you for your kindness," said the monkey. The monkey was about to leave the room when the king perceived the three centavos sticking to the bottom of the measure.  
"Here, monkey, here are your three cents!" said the king.  
"Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh!" answered the monkey, laughing, "my master cares not for three cents. He has too much money. He is very, very rich."  
The king was much surprised to hear that there was a man richer than himself.  
Two weeks later the monkey returned to the palace again, and said, "Pray, king, my master, Juan, desires to borrow your  ganta  again. He wants to finish measuring his money."  
The king was filled with curiosity; and he said, "I'll let you borrow the  ganta , monkey, but you must tell me first who is this Juan whom you call your master."  
"My master, Juan," replied the monkey, "is the richest man in the world."  
Before giving the measure to the monkey, the king went to his room and stuck four pieces of gold on the four corners of the ganta. "I'll find out who is the richer, Juan or I," he said to himself.  
The monkey took the measure, and left the hall with a polite bow. As he was walking towards Juan's farm, the monkey noticed the four pieces of gold sticking to the corners of the  ganta . He knew that they had been artfully placed there by the king himself. Two weeks later he went back to the palace to return the measure, not forgetting to stick a gold dollar on each corner.  
"Good-afternoon, king!" said he, "my master, Juan, returns you your  ganta  with a thousand thanks."  
"Very well," replied the king; "but tell me all about this master of yours who measures his money. I am a king; still I only count my money."  
The monkey remained silent. Not receiving a prompt reply, the king turned to Cabal, one of his lords, and said in a whisper, "Do you know who this Juan is who measures his money?"  
"I have not heard of him," replied the lord, "except from this monkey and yourself."  
The king then turned to the monkey, and said, "Monkey, if you don't tell me who your master is, where he lives, and all about him, I'll hang you."  
Doubtless the king was jealous of Juan because of his great wealth.  
Fearing that he would lose his life, the monkey said to the king, "My master, Juan, the richest and best man in the world, lives in the town of XYZ. He goes to church every morning wearing his striped ( tambi-tambi ) clothes. This is why he is known among his people as Juan Pusong Tambi-Tambi. If you will just look out of your window tomorrow morning, you will see him pass by your garden."  
The king's anger was appeased by this explanation. Early the next morning he was at his window, anxious to get a glimpse of Juan. He had not been there long when his attention was attracted by the appearance of a crooked man dressed in striped clothes.  
"This must be the man whom the monkey described to me yesterday," he said to himself.  
Soon his servant entered the room, and said, "The monkey desires to see you."  
The king left the window and went to where the monkey was waiting for him. As soon as the monkey saw the king, he bowed politely, and said, "My master, Juan, sends me to tell you frankly that he loves your daughter, and that, if it pleases you, he will marry her."  
At first the king was angry to hear these words; but, being very desirous to get more money, he at last consented without even asking his daughter.  
"If my master does not call on you today, he will surely come tomorrow."  
So saying, the monkey left the palace, and ran about town, trying to think of some way he might escape the great danger he was in. It so happened that an old man who was carrying a bundle of clothes to his son in the mountains passed along the same road where the monkey was. The sun was very hot, so the old man decided to rest under a leafy tree. No sooner was he seated there than the cunning monkey climbed the tree, and shook the branches with such force that twigs and fruits fell all around the old man. Panic-stricken, he ran away as fast as his feet would carry him, leaving everything behind him. When the man was out of sight, the monkey climbed down the tree, picked up the bundle of clothes, and carried it to Juan.  
"Tomorrow, Juan," said the monkey, "you will marry the princess. I'll arrange everything for you if you will only follow my advice."  
Half doubting and half believing, Juan asked the monkey if he really meant what he said.  
"What do you think of me?" asked the monkey. Without waiting for a reply from Juan, the monkey left the hut, and ran towards the home of the Burincantadas who lived on the summit of the hill. As soon as he entered the gate, he began to scoop up the ground as fast as he could. The Burincantadas, who at that very moment were looking out of the window, saw the monkey.  
They rushed downstairs, and, half frightened, said to him, "What are you trying to do?"  
"Why, our king has been defeated in the war. The enemies have already taken possession of the crown. The princess is dead, and it is said that everybody will be killed before to morrow noon," replied the monkey, his teeth chattering. "I am resolved to hide myself under the ground to save my life."  
The three Burincantadas seized him by the arm, and said, "For mercy's sake, have pity on us! Tell us where we can hide!"  
They were already trembling with fear.  
"Oh, oh, oh, oh, oh! let me loose! The enemy are coming!"  
On hearing these words, the Burincantadas all shouted at once, "Tell us where to hide!"  
"If you will not let me scoop out a hole here, I'll jump into the well," said the monkey in a hoarse voice.  
As soon as the Burincantadas heard the word "well," they all ran as fast as they could, following the monkey.  
"Let me jump first!" said the monkey.  
"No, let us jump first!" shouted the Burincantadas; and so they did. The monkey made a motion as if he were going to follow; but, instead, he lifted up the biggest stone he could find and threw it down the well.  
"They are dead," he said to himself, laughing. "Ah, I have caught you! Ha, ha!"  
The Burincantadas now being dead, the monkey was at leisure to decide what to do next. He entered their palace, and there he found everything magnificent.  
"This is the very place where my master shall live!"  
He opened the first room, but there he found nothing but bones. He closed the door and opened the second, where he found many prisoners who were waiting to be eaten. He set them all free, and told them to clean up the palace at once. The prisoners set to work, not forgetting to thank the monkey for his kindness.  
Before he left the palace, he addressed the crowd as follows: "My brothers and sisters, if any one comes and asks you who your master is, tell him that he is Don Juan Pusong Tambi-Tambi."  
Then he left the crowd of people busy cleaning the palace, and went to the farm, where he found thousands of horses, cows, and sheep.  
"My master is indeed rich," he said to himself.  
He called the shepherd who was lying under the tree, and said to him, "Tell your other companions that, if any one comes and asks whose animals these are, they must answer that they all belong to Don Juan Pusong. Don Juan is your master now."  
After seeing that everything was in order, the monkey hastened to his master, who was still ploughing, and said, "Throw away your plough. Let's go to the king's palace, for tonight you will be married to the princess Doña Elena."  
Night came. The palace was splendidly adorned. The princess was sitting by her father, when Don Juan, dressed in his striped clothes and accompanied by the monkey, entered the gate of the palace. Soon the priest came, and the princess was called to the reception-hall.  
When she saw her bridegroom, she ran away in despair, and cried to her father, "Father, how dare you accept as my husband such a base, dirty, crooked man! Look at him! Why, he is the meanest of the mean."  
But the king replied, "He is rich. If you don't marry him, I'll punish you very severely."  
The princess had to obey her father; but, before giving her hand to Juan Pusong, she said, "O God! let me die."  
When the marriage ceremony was over, the king called the monkey, and asked, "Where is the couple going to live?"  
"In Don Juan's palace," was the reply of the monkey.  
The king immediately ordered carriages to be gotten ready. Then they started on their journey. Four hours passed, and still no palace was to be seen.  
The king became impatient, and said to the monkey, "Monkey, if what you have said to me is not true, your head shall answer for your lie."  
Hardly had he said these words when he beheld before him a number of men watching a herd of cattle. "I wonder who owns these, monkey!" said the king.  
The monkey made some signs, and soon three shepherds came running up to them.  
"Good-evening, king!" they said.  
"Good-evening!" replied the king. "Whose cattle are these?"  
"They are all owned by Don Juan Pusong," said the shepherds.  
The king nodded, and said to himself, "He is truly rich."  
The palace was now in sight. The king could hardly express his joy on seeing such a magnificent building.  
"Why, it is not a palace: it is heaven itself," he said. They were now upstairs. The king, on seeing still more beauties, said, "I confess, I am not the richest man on earth."  
Soon he died of joy, and his body was placed in a golden coffin and buried in the church. The couple inherited his dominion; but Queen Elena could not endure her ugly husband, and two weeks later she died broken-hearted. So Juan was left as sole ruler of two kingdoms. The monkey became his chief minister.  
This story shows that a compassionate man oftentimes gets his reward.