A man had a boy who when he was sent of errands would forget
what he was sent for. So one day, when he sent him to the butcher's
to get a sheep's pluck, to make him remember he told him to
keep a saying, "Heart, liver, and lights [lungs]." 
  
So the boy started, saying, "Heart, liver, 'n' lights! Heart, liver, 'n' lights!"  
  
By and by he came across a man puking. He took him and gave him a whipping,
and said, "You want I should puke up my heart, liver, and lights,
do you?"  
  
"No," said the boy; "what shall I say ?" and the man told him to say, "I wish they may never come up!"  
  
So the boy went on, saying, "Wish 'ey may never come up! Wish 'ey may never come up!"  
  
By and by he came across a man planting beans, and
he took and whipped him and said, "You wish my beans should
never come up, do you?"  
  
The boy said, "No, what shall I say?"  
  
"Say, 'I wish fifty-fold this year and a hundred-fold next.'"  
  
So the boy went on, saying, " Wish fifty-fold this year, 'n' a hundred-fold
next! Wish fifty-fold this year 'n' a hundred-fold next!"  
  
By and by he came across a funeral, and they took and whipped him, and
said, "You wish fifty-fold to die this year and a hundred-fold next,
do you?"  
  
The boy said, "No, what shall I say?"  
  
"Say, 'I wish they may never die!'"  
  
So the boy went on, saying, " Wish 'ey may never die! Wish 'ey may never die!"  
  
By and by he came across a man who was trying to kill two dogs, and he took and whipped him and said, "You wish the dogs should never die, do you?"  
  
The boy said, "No, what shall I say?"  
  
"Say, 'The dog and the bitch are going to be hanged!'"  
  
So the boy went on, saying, "The dog 'n' the bitch are gon ter be hanged! The dog 'n' the bitch are gon ter be hanged!"  
  
By and by he came across a wedding party, and they took and whipped him and said, "You call us dog and bitch, do you?"  
  
The boy said, "No, what shall I say?"  
  
"Say, 'I wish you may live happily together!'"  
  
So the boy went on, saying, "Wish y' may live happily together! Wish y' may live happily together!"  
  
By and by he came across two men who had fallen into a pit, and one
of them had got out and was trying to get the other out. And he
took and whipped him and said, "You wish we may live happily
together in this pit, do you?"  
  
The boy said, "No, what shall I say?"  
  
"Say, 'One's out and I wish the other was out!'"  
  
So the boy went on, saying, "One's out 'n' I wish t' other w's out! One's
out 'n' I wish t' other w's out!"  
  
By and by he came across a man with only one eye, and he took and whipped him till he killed him.