The highway between Pateley Bridge and Grassington crosses, in the
parish of Burnsall, the deep dell in which runs the small river Dibb, or
Dibble, by a bridge known in legend as the Devil's Bridge. It might
reasonably be supposed that Deep-Dell Bridge, or Dibble Bridge, was the
correct and desirable designation, but legend and local tradition will by
no means have it so, and account for the less pleasant name in the
following manner.
 In the days when Fountain's Abbey was in its prime, a shoemaker and
small tenant of part of the abbey lands, named Ralph Calvert, resided at
Thorp-sub-Montem, and journeyed twice a year along this road to pay his
rent to the abbot, dispose of the fruits of his six months' handiwork, and
return the shoes entrusted to him on his previous visit for repair, and
bring back with him, on his return, a bag well filled with others that
needed his attention.
 The night before setting out on one of these occasions, he had a
fearful dream, in which he struggled with the devil, who, in this wild,
rocky ravine, amid unpleasant surroundings, endeavored to thrust Ralph
into a bag, similar to the one in which he carried his stock-in-trade.
This he and his wife feared boded no good. In the morning, however, he
started on his journey, and duly reached the abbey, assisted at the
service, did his business with the abbot and brethren, and then started,
with his well filled bag, on his return homewards.
 When he arrived near home, in the deep ravine, where on previous
occasions he had found but a small brook which he could easily ford, he
now found a mountain torrent, through which he only with difficulty and
some danger made his way. Having accomplished the passage, he sat down to
rest and to dry his wetted garments. As he sat and contemplated the place,
he could not but recall how exactly it corresponded with the spot seen in
his dream, and at which the author of evil had tried to bag him. Dwelling
on this brought anything but pleasant thoughts, and to drive them away,
and to divert his mind, he struck up a familiar song, in which the name of
the enemy finds frequent mention, and the refrain of which was:
 Sing luck-a-down, heigh down, 
Ho, down derry. 
 He was unaware of any presence but his own. But, to his alarm, another
voice than his added a further line:
 Tol lol derol, darel dol, dolde derry. 
 Ralph thought of his dream. Then he fancied he saw the shadow of a man
on the road. Then from a projecting corner of a rock he heard a voice
reading over a list of delinquents in the neighborhood, with whom he must
remonstrate -- Ralph's own name among the rest. Not to be caught
eavesdropping, Ralph feigned sleep. But after a time was aroused by the
stranger, and a long conversation ensued, the upshot of which was, after
they had entered into a compact of friendship, that Satan informed the
shoemaker who he was and inquired of the alarmed man if there was anything
that he could do for him.
 Ralph looked at the swollen torrent and thought of the danger he had
lately incurred in crossing it, and of his future journeys that way to the
abbey. And then he said, "I have heard that you are an able architect. I
should wish you to build a bridge across this stream. I know you can do
it."
 At nightfall Ralph reached his home at Thorpe, and related his
adventure to his wife, and added, "In spite of all that is said against
him, the Evil One is an honest gentleman, and I have made him promise to
build a bridge at the Gill Ford on the road to Pateley. If he fulfils his
promise, St. Crispin bless him."
 The news of Ralph's adventure and of the promise soon spread among the
neighbors, and he had no small amount of village chaff and ridicule to
meet before the eventful Saturday -- the fourth day -- arrived. At last it
came.
 Accompanied by thirty or forty of the villagers, Ralph made his way to
the dell, where, on arrival, picture their astonishment at the sight! Lo,
a beautiful and substantial bridge spanned the abyss! Surveyor, and mason,
and priest pronounced it to be perfect. The latter sprinkled it with holy
water, caused a cross to be placed at each approach to it, and then
declared it to be safe for all Christian people to use. So it remained
until the Puritan Minister of Pateley, in the time of the Commonwealth,
discerning the story to be a Popish legend, caused the protecting crosses
to be removed as idolatrous.
 After that time, neither the original builder nor any other person
seems to have thought fit to keep the bridge in "good and tenantable"
repair, and in time it fell into so disreputable and dangerous a
condition, that the liberal and almost magic-working native of the parish
-- Sir William Craven, Lord Mayor of London in the reign of the 1st James
-- took the matter in hand and built upon the old foundations a more
terrestrial, but not less substantial and enduring, structure.
 Still men call it the Devil's Bridge.