This inn of Spital on Stanmore was kept, in the year 1797, by one George 
Alderson. He, his wife, and son managed the business of this lonely hostel 
themselves, with the help of a maid named Bella. The inn was a long, 
narrow building, and turned one end towards the great high road which 
crossed Stanmore on its way from York to Carlisle. The lower story of the 
house was used as stabling, for the stage coaches changed horses at the 
inn and brought all the last news of the day. The upper part of the solid 
stone building was reached by a flight of ten or twelve stone steps 
leading up from the road to a stout oaken door, and the windows, deeply 
recessed in the thick walls, were strongly barred with iron.   
One cold October night the red curtains were drawn across the windows, and 
a huge log fire sputtered and crackled on the broad hearth, and lighted up 
the faces of George Alderson and his son as they sat talking of their 
gains at the fair of Broughton Hill; these gains, representing a large sum 
of money, being safely stowed away in a cupboard in the landlord's 
bedroom.   
Mrs. Alderson and Bella sat a little way off spinning by firelight, for 
the last coach had gone by and the house door was barred and bolted for 
the night. Outside the wind and rain were having a battle; there came 
fierce gusts which made the old casements rattle and stirred the red 
curtains, and then a torrent of rain swept smartly across the window, 
striking the glass so angrily that it seemed as if the small panes must 
shatter under its violence.   
Into the midst of this fitful disturbance, only varied by the men's voices 
beside the hearth, there came a knock at the door.   
"Open t' door, lass," said Alderson. "Ah wadna keep a dog out sik a neet 
as this."   
"Eh! best slacken t' chain, lass," said the more cautious landlady.   
The girl went to the door, but when she saw that the visitor was an old 
woman she opened the door wide and bade her come in. There entered a bent 
figure dressed in a long cloak and hood; this last was drawn over her 
face; and, as she walked feebly to the armchair which Alderson pushed 
forward, the rain streamed from her clothing and made a pool on the oaken 
floor. She shivered violently, but refused to take off her cloak and have 
it dried. She also refused the offer of food or a bed. She said she was on 
her way to the north, and must start as soon as there was daylight. All 
she wanted was a rest beside the fire. She could get the sleep she needed 
in her armchair.   
The innkeeper and his wife were well used to wayfarers, and they soon said 
"Good-night" and went to bed; so did their son. Bella was left alone with 
the shivering old woman. The girl had kept silence, but now she put her 
wheel away in its corner and began to talk. She only got surly answers, 
and although the voice was low and subdued, the girl fancied that it did 
not sound like a woman's. Presently the wayfarer stretched out her feet to 
warm them, and Bella's quick eyes saw under the hem of the skirts that the 
stranger wore horseman's gaiters. The girl felt uneasy, and, instead of 
going to bed, she resolved to stay up and watch.   
"Ah'm sleepy," she said, gaping, but the figure in the chair made no 
answer. Presently Bella lay down on a long settle beyond the range of the 
firelight and watched the stranger while she pretended to fall asleep.   
All at once the figure in the chair stirred, raised its head, and 
listened; then it rose slowly to its feet, no longer bent, but tall and 
powerful-looking. It stood listening for some time. There was no sound but 
Bella's heavy breathing and the wind and the rain beating on the windows. 
Then the woman took from the folds of her cloak a brown withered human 
hand; next she produced a candle, lit it from the fire, and placed it in 
the hand. Bella's heart beat so fast that she could hardly keep up the 
regular deep breathing of pretended sleep; but now she saw the stranger 
coming towards her with this ghastly chandelier, and she closed her lids 
tightly. She felt that the woman was bending over her, and that the light 
was passed slowly before her eyes, while these words were muttered in the 
strange masculine voice that had first roused her suspicions:  
  
Let those who rest more deeply sleep;   
Let those awake their vigils keep.  
  
The light moved away, and through her eyelashes Bella saw that the woman's 
back was turned to her, and that she was placing the hand in the middle of 
the long oak table, while she muttered this rhyme: 
  
O Hand of Glory shed thy light;   
Direct us to our spoil tonight.  
  
Then she moved a few steps away and undrew the window curtain. Coming back 
to the table she said:  
  
Flash out thy blaze, O skeleton hand,   
And guide the feet of our trusty band.  
  
At once the light shot up a bright livid gleam, and the woman walked to 
the door; she took down the bar, drew back the bolts, unfastened the 
chain, and Bella felt a keen blast of cold night air rush in as the door 
was flung open. She kept her eyes closed, however, for the woman at that 
moment looked back at her, and then drawing something from her gown she 
blew a long shrill whistle; she then went out at the door and down a few 
of the steps, stopped and whistled again, but the next moment a vigorous 
push sent her spinning down the steps on to the road below.   
The door was closed, barred, and bolted, and Bella almost flew to her 
master's bedroom and tried to wake him. In vain. He and his wife slept on, 
while their snores sounded loudly through the house. The girl felt 
frantic. She then tried to rouse young Alderson, but he slept as if in a 
trance. Now a fierce battery on the door and cries below the windows told 
that the band had arrived.   
A new thought came to Bella. She ran back to the kitchen. There was the 
Hand of Glory, still burning with a wonderful light. The girl caught up a 
cup of milk that stood on the table, dashed it on the flame and 
extinguished it -- in one moment, as it seemed to her, she heard footsteps 
coming from the bedrooms, and George Alderson and his son rushed into the 
room with firearms in their hands.   
As soon as the robbers heard his voice bidding them depart they summoned 
the landlord to open his doors and produce his valuables. Meanwhile young 
Alderson had opened the window, and for answer he fired his blunderbuss 
down among the men below.   
There was a groan, a fall, then a pause, and, as it seemed to the 
besieged, some sort of discussion. Then a voice called out, "Give up the 
Hand of Glory, and we will not harm you."   
For answer young Alderson fired again, and the party drew off. Seemingly 
they had trusted entirely to the Hand of Glory, or else they feared a long 
resistance, for no further attack was made. The withered hand remained in 
possession of the Aldersons for sixteen years after.   
This story was told to my informant, Mr. Atkinson, by Bella herself when 
she was quite an old woman.