better, are persuaded that the seals, or silkies, as they call them, can
doff their coverings at times, and disport themselves as men and
women. A fisher once turning a ridge of rock, discovered a beautiful
bit of green turf adjoining the shingle, sheltered by rocks on the
landward
side, and over this turf and shingle two beautiful women chasing each
other. Just at the man's feet lay two sealskins, one of which he took up
to examine it. The women, catching sight of him, screamed out, and ran to
get possession of the skins. One seized the article on the ground, donned
it in a thrice, and plunged into the sea; the other wrung her hands,
cried, and begged the fisher to restore her property; but he wanted a
wife,
and would not throw away the chance. He wooed her so earnestly and
lovingly, that she put on some woman's clothing which he brought her from
his cottage, followed him home, and became his wife. Some years
later, when their home was enlivened by the presence of two children, the
husband, awakening one night, heard voices in conversation from the
kitchen. Stealing softly to the room door, he heard his wife talking in a
low tone with someone outside the window. The interview was just at an
end,
and he had only time to ensconce himself in bed, when his wife was
stealing
across the room. He was greatly disturbed, but determined to do or say
nothing till he should acquire further knowledge. Next evening, as
he
was returning home by the strand, he spied a male and female phoca
sprawling on a rock a few yards out at sea. The rougher animal,
raising himself on his tail and fins, thus addressed the astonished man in
the dialect spoken in these islands, "You deprived me of her whom I was to
make my companion; and it was only yesternight that I discovered her outer
garment, the loss of which obliged her to be your wife. I bear no malice,
as you were kind to her in your own fashion; besides, my heart is too full
of joy to hold any malice. Look on your wife for the last time." The
other seal glanced at him with all the shyness and sorrow she could force
into her now uncouth features; but when the bereaved husband rushed toward
the rock to secure his lost treasure, she and her companion were in the
water on the other side of it in a moment, and the poor fisherman
was obliged to return sadly to his motherless children and desolate
home.