On the coast of Suruga, at Miwo, there once lived a fisherman by the 
name of Hakurioo. One day when he was resting from 
his work on the bank in the sunshine he saw a brightly glistening white 
robe lying before him, delicate and translucent and entirely 
woven from feathers. At the place where the shoulders would fit on the 
wonderful robe there hung two wings.   
 He eagerly picked it up, wanting to take it home and carefully put it 
away, when a beautiful girl appeared before him. She 
sobbed aloud and demanded the return of her robe.  
 Hakurioo was at first not at all willing to give up his find. But then 
the girl said, amidst endless sobs and tears, that she was a 
heavenly goddess, and that she would have to remain miserably on earth as 
long as she did not have her feathery robe, that she 
had taken off while bathing, and which had thus wrongly come into his 
hands.  
 Moved by compassion, the fisherman said, "Very well, I will give your 
robe back to you, if in return you will dance the 
heavenly dance for me with which you daughters of heaven soar through the 
clouds."   
 The maiden replied, "Yes, give me my robe, and you shall behold the 
most beautiful dance that I am able to dance."  
 The fisherman considered for a moment and said, "No, dance first, and 
then I will give you your robe."  
 With this the heavenly maiden grew angry and said, "Shame on you, that 
you doubt the words of a goddess! Quickly, give 
me my robe, for without it I am not able to dance. You will not regret it. 
That I promise you!"  
 Thereupon Hakurioo handed her the feathery robe. She immediately put it 
on and rose into the air. True to her words, 
before the fisherman's amazed eyes she performed the most magnificent 
dance that one can imagine, at the same time singing the 
most beautiful, sensuous melodies, until Hakurioo did not know what was 
happening to him. In more and more beautiful loops 
she rose higher and higher, but it was a long time before she disappeared 
from the enchanted fisherman's view, soaring into a 
light cloud that was drifting toward Fujiyama's summit, with the last 
sounds of her godly song sounding in his ears.