The Devil's Bridge, a remarkable structure, composed of three beautifully 
fluted arches, and so named from having, it is said, been built by his 
Satanic majesty; if so it is certainly inconsistent and in direct 
contradiction to his general character, and the good that has come out of 
evil in this instance is most remarkable. Respecting the building, the 
legend which nearly all Kirkby people will tell you, is as follows:   
A cow belonging to a poor woman had strayed across the river at some 
convenient wading place, and not having returned with the town herd at 
milking time, the woman went forth to seek her. In the meantime the water 
had risen considerably, and, not being able to cross the river, the woman 
was in a dilemma, for her good man, a laborer, and her cow, were on the 
opposite side. At this juncture the devil, in human form, appeared on the 
other bank, no doubt assuming the soft guile of the tempter, promised to 
build a bridge, on condition that the first living thing which passed over 
should become his lawful prize; to this the woman gladly assented.   
Darkness deepened rapidly -- necessary for diabolical thought and deed, 
which in this instance was frustrated by the forethought of the woman, 
whose husband or herself had been singled out for the victim which was to 
propitiate the building of the bridge. At the appointed hour she returned, 
bringing with her a dog, and a delicious morsel wherewith to tempt it. The 
bridge was complete, and there stood his sable majesty, anxiously awaiting 
his victim.   
Suddenly, across the bridge, she threw the tempting morsel, and after it 
sprang the dog. The devil, seeing how cleverly he had been outwitted, gave 
forth a terrific howl, which aroused all the inhabitants in the old town, 
who at once rushed down to the river to ascertain the cause, thinking 
there had been an earthquake, instead of which they were agreeably 
astonished to find a substantial bridge, across which the woman, 
accompanied by her husband and dog, were driving the cow.   
And there still stands the remarkable structure to witness or attest the 
truth, as story says, if I lie, and as a further proof, below the bridge 
is still to be seen the Devil's Neck Collar -- a rock with a large 
perforation, which he lost from his neck in that wild unearthly plunge 
from the bridge, on finding his hellish scheme thwarted.