Folk Tales and Fairy Lore in Gaelic and 
English 
The red-haired tailor lived in Rannoch.  Like the rest of his kind, he 
went from house to house to make clothes of the cloth which thrifty wives 
manufactured for their husbands and sons in by-gone times.
  
Once as he was approaching a house, where he had a few days' work to do, 
evening came on, and he saw, in the dimness of the twilight, one like a 
very little child, running before him and keeping out of sight behind 
every bush and every hillock at the road-side.  The tailor hardened his 
step, hoping to overtake the curious manikin before him, but instead of 
gaining, he was losing ground at every step he took.  As soon as he 
noticed this, he began to run with all his might; but in spite of his 
skin, he could not shorten the distance between them.
 
At length he lost patience so completely that he threw his big shears at 
the nimble little man ahead, and struck him with them in the knee 
joints.  The fairy, for such he was, fell on his face, and before he had 
time to rise up, was in the tailor's arms, and the shears on his breast.
 
"Tell me where thou art going, my good lad," said the tailor.
 
"I am on my way from the Big Fairy Knoll, to the house ahead of thee, to 
get a while of the breast of the wife," replied the little imp.  This was 
the very house to which the tailor was going.
 
"And what wilt thou do with the woman's own child?" said he then.
 
"Oh, I will put him out at the back window to my people, and they will 
take him with them to our place," answered the other.
 
"And will they send him home when thou hast had enough of his mother's 
breast?"
 
"Oh, no; never!"
 
  "That will do," said the tailor, and he let his 
prisoner go.
  
As soon as he got his liberty, he stretched away to the house, and was 
within before the tailor arrived.  He had the house to himself, for the 
goodman and his wife were in the byre milking the cows, and no one within 
but the child in the cradle.  He lifted the child in his arms, and handed 
it out at the back window to the other fairies, as he thought; but the 
tailor was before them, and took the child quietly in his arms, and then 
went away with it to the house of his sister, who lived a short distance 
off, and left it in her charge.
  
When he returned he found the wife before him, and the changeling in the 
cradle, ready to burst with crying.  The wife took him up, and gave him a 
drink, and then put him back in the cradle again.
 
He was not long there till he began to scream and cry once more.  She 
took him up, and gave him another drink.  But to all appearance nothing 
would please him but to be left always on the breast.
 
This game went on for a few days more.  But when the patience of the 
tailor ran out, he sprang at last from the work-table, took in a creelful 
of peats, and put a big fire on the hearth.  When the fire was in the 
heat of its burning, he sprang over to the cradle, took with him the 
changeling, and before any one in the house could interpose, he threw him 
in the very middle of the flames.  But the little knave leaped out 
through the chimney, and from the house-top cried in triumph to the 
wife:  "I have got so much of the sap of thy breast in spite of thee," 
and he departed.