Once upon a time there was a merchant who had three daughters, but his
wife was with God.  Once he planned a journey across the ocean to a
foreign land in order to bring back gold and other valuable things.  He
consoled his weeping children, saying, "I will bring back something
beautiful for you.  What do you want?"  
The oldest asked for a silk dress, "and it must be made of three kinds of
silk."  
The second desired a feathered hat, "and it must have three kinds of
feathers."  
The youngest finally said, "Bring me a rose, dear father, and it must be
fresh and have three colors."  
The merchant promised to do this, kissed his daughters, and departed.  
After arriving in the foreign land, he ordered the dress of three kinds of
silk for his oldest daughter and the hat with three kinds of feathers for
the second one.  Both were soon finished, and of seldom splendor.  Then he
sent messengers throughout the entire country to seek a three-colored rose
for his youngest and dearest daughter, but they all returned empty handed,
even though the merchant had promised a high price, and even though there
were more roses there than there are daisies here.    
Sadly he set off for home and was downhearted the entire voyage.  This
side of the ocean he came to a large garden in which there was nothing but
roses and roses.  He went inside and looked, and behold, on a slender bush
in the middle of the garden there was a three-colored rose.  Filled with
joy, he plucked it, and was about to leave, when he was magically frozen
in place.  
A voice behind him cried out, "What do you want in my garden?"  He looked
up.  A large frog was sitting there on the bank of a clear pond staring at
him with its goggle-eyes.  It said, "You have broken my dear rose.  This
will cost you your life unless you give me your youngest daughter to
wife."  
The merchant was terrified.  He begged and he pleaded, but all to no
avail, and in the end he had to agree to marry his dearest daughter to the
ugly frog.  He could now move his feet, and he freely walked out of the
garden.  The frog called out after him, "In seven days I shall come for my
wife!"  
With great sorrow the merchant gave his youngest daughter the fresh rose
and told her what had happened.  When the terrible day arrived, she crept
under her bed, for she did not at all want to go.  At the hour of noon a
stately carriage drove up.  The frog sent his servants into the house, and
they immediately went to the bedroom and dragged the screaming maiden from
beneath her bed, then carried her to the carriage.  The horses leaped
forward, and a short time later they were in the blossoming rose garden.
In the middle of the garden, immediately behind the clear pond, there
stood a small house.  They took the bride into the house and laid her on a
soft bed.  The frog, however, sprang into the water.  
Darkness fell, and after the maiden had awakened from her unconsciousness,
she heard the frog outside singing wonderfully sweet melodies.  As
midnight approached, he sang ever more sweetly, and came closer and closer
to her.  At midnight the bedroom door opened, and the frog jumped onto her
bed.  However, he had touched her with his sweet songs, and she took him
into bed with her and warmly covered him up.  
The next morning when she opened her eyes, behold, the ugly frog was now
the handsomest prince in the world.  He thanked her with all his heart,
saying, "You have redeemed me and are now my wife!"  And they lived long
and happily together.