In ancient days there lived in a remote part of Japan a man and his wife, 
and they were blessed with a little girl, who was the pet and idol of her 
parents.  On one occasion the man was called away on business in distant 
Kyoto.  Before he went he told his daughter that if she were good and 
dutiful to her mother he would bring her back a present she would prize 
very highly.  Then the good man took his departure, mother and daughter 
watching him go. 
At last he returned to his home, and after his wife and child had taken 
off his large hat and sandals he sat down upon the white mats and opened 
a bamboo basket, watching the eager gaze of his little child.  He took 
out a wonderful doll and a lacquer box of cakes and put them into her 
outstretched hands.  Once more he dived into his basket, and presented 
his wife with a metal mirror.  Its convex surface shone brightly, while 
upon its back there was a design of pine trees and storks. 
The good man's wife had never seen a mirror before, and on gazing into it 
she was under the impression that another woman looked out upon her as 
she gazed with growing wonder.  Her husband explained the mystery and 
bade her take great care of the mirror. 
Not long after this happy homecoming and distribution of presents the 
woman became very ill.  Just before she died she called to her little 
daughter, and said: "Dear child, when I am dead take every care of your 
father.  You will miss me when I have left you.  But take this mirror, 
and when you feel most lonely look into it and you will always see me."  
Having said these words she passed away. 
In due time the man married again, and his wife was not at all kind to 
her stepdaughter.  But the little one, remembering her mother's words, 
would retire to a corner and eagerly look into the mirror, where it 
seemed to her that she saw her dear mother's face, not drawn in pain as 
she had seen it on her deathbed, but young and beautiful. 
One day this child's stepmother chanced to see her crouching in a corner 
over an object she could not quite see, murmuring to herself.  This 
ignorant woman, who detested the child and believed that her stepdaughter 
detested her in return, fancied that this little one was performing some 
strange magical art--perhaps making an image and sticking pins into it.  
Full of these notions, the stepmother went to her husband and told him 
that his wicked child was doing her best to kill her by witchcraft. 
When the master of the house had listened to this extraordinary recital 
he went straight to his daughter's room.  He took her by surprise, and 
immediately the girl saw him she slipped the mirror into her sleeve.  For 
the first time her doting father grew angry, and he feared that there 
was, after all, truth in what his wife had told him, and he repeated her 
tale forthwith. 
When his daughter had heard this unjust accusation she was amazed at her 
father's words, and she told him that she loved him far too well ever to 
attempt or wish to kill his wife, who she knew was dear to him. 
"What have you hidden in your sleeve?" said her father, only half 
convinced and still much puzzled. 
"The mirror you gave my mother, and which she on her deathbed gave to 
me.  Every time I look into its shining surface I see the face of my dear 
mother, young and beautiful.  When my heart aches--and oh! it has ached 
so much lately--I take out the mirror, and mother's face, with sweet, 
kind smile, brings me peace, and helps me to bear hard words and cross 
looks." 
Then the man understood and loved his child the more for her filial 
piety.  Even the girl's stepmother, when she knew what had really taken 
place, was ashamed and asked forgiveness.  And this child, who believed 
she had seen her mother's face in the mirror, forgave, and trouble 
forever departed from the home.