There were 10,000 wagons rolling along the turnpike road, in each wagon 
there were 10,000 casks, in each cask 10,000 bags, in each bag 10,000 
poppy seeds, in each poppy seed 10,000 lightnings. May all these 
thunderous lightnings strike him who won't listen to my tale, which I have 
brought from beyond the Operencian Sea!   
There was once, it doesn't matter where: there was once upon a time, a 
poor man who had a pretty young wife; they were very fond of each other. 
The only thing they had to complain of was their poverty, as neither of 
them owned a farthing; it happened, therefore, sometimes, that they 
quarreled a little, and then they always cast it in each other's teeth 
that they hadn't got anything to bless themselves with. But still they 
loved each other.   
One evening the woman came home much earlier than her husband and went 
into the kitchen and lighted the fire, although she had nothing to cook. 
"I think I can cook a little soup, at least, for my husband. It will be 
ready by the time he comes home."   
But no sooner had she put the kettle over the fire, and a few logs of wood 
on the fire in order to make the water boil quicker, than her husband 
arrived home and took his seat by the side of her on the little bench. 
They warmed themselves by the fire, as it was late in the autumn and cold. 
In the neighboring village they had commenced the vintage on that very 
day.   
"Do you know the news, wife?" inquired he.   
"No, I don't. I've heard nothing. Tell me what it is."   
"As I was coming from the squire's maize field, I saw in the dark, in the 
distance, a black spot on the road. I couldn't make out what it was, so I 
went nearer, and lo! do you know what it was? -- A beautiful little golden 
carriage, with a pretty little woman inside, and four fine black dogs 
harnessed to it."   
"You're joking," interrupted the wife.   
"I'm not, indeed, it's perfectly true. You know how muddy the roads about 
here are; it happened that the dogs stuck fast with the carriage and they 
couldn't move from the spot; the little woman didn't care to get out into 
the mud, as she was afraid of soiling her golden dress. At first, when I 
found out what it was, I had a good mind to run away, as I took her for an 
evil spirit, but she called out after me and implored me to help her out 
of the mud; she promised that no harm should come to me, but on the 
contrary she would reward me. So I thought that it would be a good thing 
for us if she could help us in our poverty; and with my assistance the 
dogs dragged her carriage out of the mud. The woman asked me whether I was 
married. I told her I was. And she asked me if I was rich. I replied, not 
at all; I didn't think, I said, that there were two people in our village 
who were poorer than we. 'That can be remedied,' replied she. 'I will 
fulfill three wishes that your wife may propose.' And she left as suddenly 
as if dragons had kidnapped her. She was a fairy."   
"Well, she made a regular fool of you!"   
"That remains to be seen. You must try and wish something, my dear wife." 
  
Thereupon the woman without much thought said, "Well, I should like to 
have some sausage, and we could cook it beautifully on this nice fire." 
  
No sooner were the words uttered than a frying pan came down the chimney, 
and in it a sausage of such length that it was long enough to fence in the 
whole garden.   
''This is grand!" they both exclaimed together.   
"But we must be a little more clever with our next two wishes; how well we 
shall be off! I will at once buy two heifers and two horses, as well as a 
sucking pig," said the husband. Whereupon he took his pipe from his 
hatband, took out his tobacco pouch, and filled his pipe; then he tried to 
light it with a hot cinder, but was so awkward about it that he upset the 
frying pan with the sausage in it.   
"Good heavens! The sausage! What on earth are you doing! I wish that 
sausage would grow on to your nose," exclaimed the frightened woman, and 
tried to snatch the same out of the fire, but it was too late, as it was 
already dangling from her husband's nose down to his toes.   
"My Lord Creator help me!" shouted the woman.   
"You see, you fool, what you've done, there! Now the second wish is gone," 
said her husband. "What can we do with this thing?"   
"Can't we get it off?" said the woman. "Take off the devil! Don't you see 
that it has quite grown to my nose. You can't take it off."   
"Then we must cut it off," said she, "as we can do nothing else."   
"I shan't permit it. How could I allow my body to be cut about? Not for 
all the treasures on earth. But do you know what we can do, love? There is 
yet one wish left. You'd better wish that the sausage go back to the pan, 
and so all will be right."   
But the woman replied, " How about the heifers and the horses, and how 
about the sucking pig? How shall we get those?"   
"Well, I can't walk about with this ornament, and I'm sure you won't kiss 
me again with this sausage dangling from my nose."   
And so they quarreled for a long time, till at last he succeeded in 
persuading his wife to wish that the sausage go back to the pan. And thus 
all three wishes were fulfilled; and yet they were as poor as ever.   
They, however, made a hearty meal of the sausage; and as they came to the 
conclusion that it was in consequence of their quarrelling that they had 
no heifers, nor horses, nor sucking pig, they agreed to live thenceforth 
in harmony together; and they quarreled no more after this. They got on 
much better in the world, and in time they acquired heifers, horses, and a 
sucking pig into the bargain, because they were industrious and thrifty.