Connected with Alderley Edge there is a curious tradition which preserves 
a very ancient fragment of mythological belief, and is, therefore, worthy 
of notice.   
The legend of the wizard of Alderley Edge first appeared in print in the 
 Manchester Mail  of 1805, by a correspondent who obtained it from 
the narration of a servant of the Stanleys, whose proper name was Thomas 
Broadhurst, but who was better known as "Old Daddy."   
According to this veteran the tradition says that once upon a time a 
farmer from Mobberley, mounted on a milk-white horse, was crossing the 
Edge on his way to Macclesfield to sell the animal. He had reached a spot 
known as the Thieves' Hole, and, as he slowly rode along thinking of the 
profitable bargain which he hoped to make, was startled by the sudden 
appearance of an old man, tall and strangely clad in a deep flowing 
garment. The old man ordered him to stop, told him that he knew the errand 
upon which the rider was bent, and offered a sum of money for the horse. 
The farmer, however, refused the offer, not thinking it sufficient.   
"Go, then, to Macclesfield," said the old man, "but mark my words, you 
will not sell the horse. Should you find my words come true, meet me this 
evening, and I will buy your horse."   
The farmer laughed at such a prophecy, and went on his way. To his great 
surprise, and greater disappointment, nobody would buy, though all admired 
his beautiful horse. He was, therefore, compelled to return. On 
approaching the Edge he saw the old man again. Checking his horse's pace, 
he began to consider how far it might be prudent to deal with a perfect 
stranger in so lonely a place.   
However, while he was considering what to do, the old man commanded him, 
"Follow me!"   
Silently the old man led him by the Seven Firs, the Golden Stone, by 
Stormy Point, and Saddle Boll. Just as the farmer was beginning to think 
he had gone far enough he fancied that he heard a horse neighing 
underground. Again he heard it. Stretching forth his arm the old man 
touched a rock with a wand, and immediately the farmer saw a ponderous 
pair of iron gates, which, with a sound like thunder, flew open. The horse 
reared bolt upright, and the terrified farmer fell on his knees praying 
that his life might be spared.   
"Fear nothing," spoke the Wizard, "and behold a sight which no mortal eye 
has ever looked upon."   
They went into the cave. In a long succession of caverns the farmer saw a 
countless number of men and horses, the latter milk-white, and all fast 
asleep. In the innermost cavern heaps of treasure were piled up on the 
ground. From these glittering heaps the old man bade the farmer take the 
price he desired for his horse, and thus addressed him, "You see these men 
and horses; the number was not complete. Your horse was wanted to make it 
complete. Remember my words, there will come a day when these men and 
these horses, awakening from their enchanted slumber, will descend into 
the plain, decide the fate of a great battle, and save their country. This 
shall be when George the son of George shall reign. Go home in safety. 
Leave your horse with me. No harm will befall you; but henceforward no 
mortal eye will ever look upon the iron gates. Begone!"   
The farmer lost no time in obeying. He heard the iron gates close with the 
same fearful sounds with which they were opened, and made the best of his 
way to Mobberley.