In the vicinity of Niedenstein there lived in ancient times a wealthy
nobleman, who occupied himself hunting. At home he had a beautiful but
proud wife.
 One morning when the noblewoman was home alone a poor woman knocked at
her door. She was holding one child by the hand, carrying one on her arm,
and had yet another one beneath her heart. She asked for alms.
 "Get out of here!" cried out the hard-hearted noblewoman. "Why must you
poor people have so many children, if you can't afford to feed them?"
 The woman turned away, saying as she left, "May one day you be given
seven at one time!"
 Not long afterward the noblewoman did indeed give birth to seven boys
at one time. In her fear, she commanded her servant girl to put six of the
boys into a basket and to carry them away and throw them into the water
before her husband returned home. "If on your way anyone questions you,"
she said, "just tell them that you have some young dogs to be drowned; but
on your life, do not open the lid."
 The servant girl did as she had been ordered, but as fate would have
it, the first person she met was the nobleman, who was just returning
home.
 "What do you have in the basket?" he asked.
 The servant girl answered uneasily, "Young dogs. My mistress ordered me
to throw them into the water."
 "Let me see the dogs," said the nobleman.
 Whatever excuses the servant girl made, and however she tried to
refuse, it was all to no avail, and in the end she had to open the basket.
 Instead of dogs, the nobleman was startled to see six healthy boys.
They reached out their arms toward him and look up at him imploringly with
their large blue eyes. He forced the servant girl to tell her secret and
made her swear that she would report back at home that she had carried out
her errand. He then took the basket and went to the pastor in the next
village.
 "Would you baptize six young dogs for me?" he asked the pious man, who
was outraged at such disrespect and sent the nobleman away. The same thing
happened at a second pastor. However, the third pastor he sought out said
that he was willing to baptize the dogs. 
 Each of the boys was given the name "Dog." The nobleman made a donation
to the pastor at Metz which even today is at the parsonage and is called
the "dog-tithe."
 The nobleman found a different foster home for each of the boys, but he
always made sure that each one was dressed in the same way that the boy
was dressed who had been kept by his wife.
 After they had grown up he summoned them all to his castle. The proud
wife was startled to see them, but even more when her husband asked her
what a mother would deserve who tried to drown six such splendid boys.
 She composed herself quickly and responded with impudence, "She would
deserve to be placed in a barrel studded with nails, and then rolled down
a mountain."
 "You have spoken your own judgment," said the nobleman, "for these are your children who were rescued for me by a fortunate coincidence from the death that you prepared for them.
 And he had the judgment carried out.