Now in those days, the men and the women did not live together. The men 
lived in one camp and the women in the other. The men lived in lodges made 
of skin with the hair on; the women, in good lodges. [The idea is, that 
the women dress the skins, hence the men could not live in dressedskin 
lodges.] One day Old Man came to the camp of the men, and, when he was 
there, a woman came over from the camp of the women. She said she had been 
sent by the chief of the women to invite all the men, because the women 
were going to pick out husbands.  
 Now the men began to get ready, and Old Man dressed himself up in his 
finest clothes. He was always fine looking. Then they started out, and 
when they came to the women's camp they all stood up in a row.  
 Now the chief of the women came out to make the first choice. She had 
on very dirty clothes, and none of the men knew who she was. She went 
along the line, looked them over, and finally picked out Old Man because 
of his fine appearance.  
 Now Old Man saw many nicely dressed women waiting their turn, and when 
the chief of the women took him by the hand he pulled back and broke away. 
He did this because he thought her a very common woman. When he pulled 
away, the chief of the women went back to her lodge and instructed the 
other women not to choose Old Man.  
 While the other women were picking out their husbands, the chief of the 
women put on her best costume. When she came out, she looked very fine, 
and as soon as Old Man saw her, he thought, "Oh! There is the chief of the 
women. I wish to be her husband." He did not know that it was the same 
woman.  
 Now the chief of the women came down once more to pick out a husband, 
and as she went around, Old Man kept stepping in front of her, so that she 
might see him. But she paid no attention to him, finally picking out 
another for her husband.  
 After a while all the men had been picked out except Old Man. Now he 
was very angry; but the chief of the women said to him, "After this you 
are to be a tree, and stand just where you are now."  
 Then he became a tree, and he is mad yet, because he is always caving 
down the bank.