It was springtime, and along Mio's pine-clad shore there came a sound
of birds. The blue sea danced and sparkled in the sunshine, and Hairukoo,
a fisherman, sat down to enjoy the scene. As he did so he chanced to see,
hanging on a pine tree, a beautiful robe of pure white feathers.
 As Hairukoo was about to take down the robe he saw coming toward him
from the sea an extremely lovely maiden, who requested that the fisherman
would restore the robe to her.
 Hairukoo gazed upon the lady with considerable admiration. Said he, "I
found this robe, and I mean to keep it, for it is a marvel to be placed
among the treasures of Japan. No, I cannot possibly give it to you."
 "Oh," cried the maiden pitifully, "I cannot go soaring into the sky
without my robe of feathers, for if you persist in keeping it I can never
more return to my celestial home. Oh, good fisherman, I beg of you to
restore my robe!"
 The fisherman, who must have been a hard-hearted fellow, refused to
relent.
 "The more you plead," said he, "the more determined I am to keep what I
have found."
 Thus the maiden made answer:
 Speak not, dear fisherman! Speak not that word! 
Ah! know'st thou not that, like the hapless bird 
Whose wings are broke, I seek, but seek in vain, 
Reft of my wings, to soar to heav'n's blue plain? 
 After further argument on the subject the fisherman's heart softened a
little.
 "I will restore your robe of feathers," said he, "if you will at once
dance before me."
 Then the maiden replied, "I will dance it here -- the dance that makes
the Palace of the Moon turn round, so that even poor transitory man may
learn its mysteries. But I cannot dance without my feathers."
 "No," said the fisherman suspiciously. "If I give you this robe, you
will fly away without dancing before me."
 This remark made the maiden extremely angry.
 "The pledge of mortals may be broken," said she, "but there is no
falsehood among the heavenly beings."
 These words put the fisherman to shame, and, without more ado, he gave
the maiden her robe of feathers.
 When the maiden had put on her pure white garment she struck a musical
instrument and began to dance, and while she danced and played she sang of
many strange and beautiful things concerning her faraway home in the moon.
She sang of the might Palace of the Moon, where thirty monarchs ruled,
fifteen in robes of white when that shining orb was full, and fifteen
robed in black when the moon was waning. As she sang and played and danced
she blessed Japan, "that earth may still her proper increase yield!"
 The fisherman did not long enjoy this kindly exhibition of the Moon
Lady's skill, for very soon her dainty feet ceased to tap upon the sand.
She rose into the air, the white feathers of her robe gleaming against the
pine trees or against the blue sky itself. Up, up she went, still playing
and singing, past the summits of the mountains, higher and higher, until
her song was hushed, until she reached the glorious Palace of the Moon.