In a valley in the Fichtel Mountains a shepherd tended his flock in a
green meadow.  Several times it happened that after driving his herd home
he discovered that one of the animals was missing.  All searching was in
vain.  They were lost and they remained lost.   
 Watching more carefully, he saw a large wolf creep out of the forest
thicket and seize a lamb.  Angrily he chased after him, but the enemy was
too fleet.  Before he could do anything about it, the wolf had disappeared
with the lamb.  The next time he took an expert marksman with him.  The
wolf approached, but the marksman's bullets bounced off him.  Then it
occurred to the hunter to load his weapon with the dried pith from an
elder bush.  The next day he got off a shot, and the robber ran howling
into the woods.   
 The next morning the shepherd met an old neighbor woman with whom he
was not on the best of terms.  Noticing that she was limping, he asked
her:  "Neighbor, what is wrong with your leg?  It does not want to go
along with you." 
 "What business is it of yours?" she answered, hurrying away. 
 The shepherd took note of this.  This woman had long been suspected of
practicing evil magic.  People claimed to have seen her on the Heuberg in
Swabia, the Köterberg, and also on the Hui near Halberstadt. 
 He reported her.  She was arrested, interrogated, and flogged with rod
of alder wood, with which others suspected of magic, but who had denied
the charges, had been punished.  She was then locked up in chains.  But
suddenly the woman disappeared from the prison, and no one knew where she
had gone. 
 Some time later the poor, unsuspecting shepherd saw the hated wolf
break out of the forest once again.  However, this time it had not come to
attack his herd, but the shepherd himself.  There was a furious struggle.
The shepherd gathered all of his strength together against the teeth and
claws of the ferocious beast.  It would have been his death if a hunter
had not come by in the knick of time.  In vain he fired a shot at the
wolf, and then struck it down with his knife.  The instant that blood
began to flow from the wolf's side, the old woman from the village
appeared in the field before them, writhing and twisting terribly.  They
finished killing her and buried her twenty feet beneath the earth. 
 At the place where they buried the woman they erected a large stone
cross, which they named the "Wolf Stone" in memory of these events.  It
was never peaceful and orderly in the vicinity of the stone.  The
Malicious Messenger (der Tückebote) or the Burning Man (der brennende
Mann), in the language of the people, still goes about his dangerous
business here.