Once upon a time there was a peasant's wife, a good, simple soul who 
was just returning from the market. She had 
almost reached home when she met a young man on the road who was 
continuously looking up toward heaven.  
"What is the meaning of that?" thought the old woman, and when she came 
closer to him, she asked, "My friend, why are 
you looking up into the air? Did something happen up there?"   
"Dear woman," he said, "I just fell from heaven, and now I cannot find the 
hole again."   
"So," said the old woman, "if you just fell from heaven, then you must 
know your way around up there pretty well?"   
"Of course," said the young man.   
"Then perhaps you know my son Kees, who died last year?"   
"Kees," said the man. "Is he your son? And you ask me if I know him? My 
dear woman, he is my nearest neighbor!"   
"That is wonderful," said the old woman, "and how is he doing?"   
"Quite well! Quite well! But last week he was complaining that his 
stockings are worn out. And the sausage, the ham, and 
the butter are all gone, but other than that he is doing well."   
"Oh, man, oh, man! Isn't there anyone there who can take care of his 
clothes?"   
"No," said the man, "in heaven you have to take care of your own clothes." 
  
"Can't he buy sausage and butter?"   
"Yes, they are for sale, but everything is terribly expensive, and he 
cannot afford what is there."   
"Oh dear, it is too bad that Kees still has to be in need now that he is 
dead. And I could well afford to give him something!"   
Then the man told her exactly how Kees was doing, and what he was doing, 
and where he lived. Finally he said that he had 
to go, otherwise he would be late in returning to heaven.   
"Are you going back to heaven now?" asked the old woman.   
"Yes, indeed," he said.   
"Then because you know Kees so well, would you be so kind as to do me a 
great favor? Come home with me, and I will 
pack a few things that you can give to him."   
"Well," he said, "I will do it because it is for Kees, but I shall get my 
ears pulled for being away so long."   
They went together to the farmhouse, and the old woman prepared two 
packages: one for the man who had fallen from 
heaven, because he had been so friendly, and one for Kees, but the package 
for Kees was the larger one. She also gave him 
a bag of money for her son. Then he took leave in order to make his return 
trip.   
Thinking, "Kees will be so happy when his neighbor comes home, and Kees 
hears that he has been here," the old woman 
watched him until he was out of sight.   
She never learned if Kees received her package. A short time ago someone 
told me that this was because the man still has 
not found the hole through which he had fallen from heaven.