As Chicken-Licken went one day to the wood, an acorn fell upon her poor 
bald pate, and she thought the sky had fallen. So she said she would go 
and tell the king that the sky had fallen. So Chicken-Licken turned back, 
and met Hen-Len.   
"Well, Hen-Len, where are you going?"   
And Hen-Len said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."   
And Chicken-Licken said, "Oh! Hen-Len, don't go, for I was going, and the 
sky fell upon my poor bald pate, and I'm going to tell the king."   
So Hen-Len turned back with Chicken-Licken, and met Cock-Lock. "Oh! 
Cock-Lock, where are you going?"   
And Cock-Lock said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat." Then Hen-Len 
said, "Oh! Cock-Lock, don't go, for I was going, and I met Chicken-Licken, 
and Chicken-Licken had been at the wood, and the sky had fallen on her 
poor bald pate, and we are going to tell the king."   
So Cock-Lock turned back, and met Duck-Luck. "Well, Duck-Luck, where are 
you going?"   
And Duck-Luck said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."   
Then Cock-Lock said, "Oh! Duck-Luck, don't go, for I was going, and I met 
Hen-Len, and Hen-Len met Chicken-Licken, and Chicken-Licken had been at 
the wood, and the sky had fallen on her poor bald pate, and we are going 
to tell the king."   
So Duck-Luck turned back, and met Drake-Lake.   
"Well, Drake-Lake, where are you going?" And Drake-Lake said, "I'm going 
to the wood for some meat."   
Then Duck-Luck said, "Oh! Drake-Lake, don't go, for I was going, and I met 
Cock-Lock, and Cock-Lock met Hen-Len, and Hen-Len met Chicken-Licken, and 
Chicken-Licken had been at the wood, and the sky had fallen on her poor 
bald pate, and we are going to tell the king."   
So Drake-Lake turned back, and met Goose-Loose. "Well, Goose-Loose, where 
are you going?"   
And Goose-Loose said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."   
Then Drake-Lake said, "Oh! Goose-Loose, don't go, for I was going, and I 
met Duck-Luck, and Duck-Luck met Cock-Lock, and Cock-Lock met Hen-Len, and 
Hen-Len met Chicken-Licken, and Chicken-Licken had been at the wood, and 
the sky had fallen on her poor bald pate, and we are going to tell the 
king."   
So Goose-Loose turned back, and met Gander-Lander. " Well, Gander-Lander, 
where are you going?"   
And Gander-Lander said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat."   
Then Goose-Loose said, "Oh! Gander-Lander, don't go, for I was going, and 
I met Drake-Lake, and Drake-Lake met Duck-Luck, and Duck-Luck met 
Cock-Lock, and Cock-Lock met Hen-Len, and Hen-Len met Chicken-Licken, and 
Chicken-Licken had been at the wood, and the sky had fallen on her poor 
bald pate, and we are going to tell the king."   
So Gander-Lander turned back, and met Turkey-Lurkey. "Well, Turkey-Lurkey, 
where are you going?"   
And Turkey-Lurkey said, "I'm going to the wood for some meat." Then 
Gander-Lander said, "Oh! Turkey-Lurkey, don't go, for I was going, and I 
met Goose-Loose, and Goose-Loose met Drake-Lake, and Drake-Lake met 
Duck-Luck, and Duck-Luck met Cock-Lock, and Cock-Lock met Hen-Len, and 
Hen-Len met Chicken-Licken, and Chicken-Licken had been at the wood, and 
the sky had fallen on her poor bald pate, and we are going to tell the 
king."   
So Turkey-Lurkey turned back, and walked with Gander-Lander, Goose-Loose, 
Drake-Lake, Duck-Luck, Cock-Lock, Hen-Len, and Chicken-Licken. And as they 
were going along, they met Fox-lox.   
And Fox-Lox said, " Where are you going, my pretty maids?"   
And they said, "Chicken-licken went to the wood, and the sky fell upon her 
poor bald pate, and we are going to tell the king."   
And Fox-Lox said, "Come along with me, and I will show you the way."   
But Fox-Lox took them into the fox's hole, and he and his young ones soon 
ate up poor Chicken-Licken, Hen-Len, Cock-Lock, Duck-Luck, Drake-Lake, 
Goose-Loose, Gander-Lander, and Turkey-Lurkey, and they never saw the 
king, to tell him that the sky had fallen!