There once lived near a thick forest a woodcutter who had a wicked wife 
and 

two good children. Now the woodcutter was very poor and had scarcely 
enough 

bread to still his own hunger and that of his family. One day the father 
had 

again gone into the woods, and the wicked mother was alone in their small 
hut. 

 
 The wicked mother said to the children, "Go into the forest and collect 
some 

wood. The first one of you to return home will get a very beautiful 
apple." 
 The girl and the boy went out into the forest to collect wood and 
hurriedly 

gathered up two bundles of twigs. Having tied up the bundles, they quickly 

turned their steps toward home. But as they approached their hut the more 

uneasy they grew. It was as though they had stones on their hearts. 
 As they were walking along, the boy's shoulder strap broke, and he 
asked his 

sister, "Wait for me. My shoulder strap broke, and I have to tie it 

together." 
 But the girl thought about the beautiful apple that their mother had 

promised, and she hurried onward. She had gone only a little way when her 

shoulder strap broke as well. Her brother caught up with her, panting 
under his 

heavy burden of wood. 
 The girl now asked him, "Wait for me. My shoulder strap broke, and I 
have to 

tie it together." 
 But the boy had no ears for his sister's request, and he replied, "You 

didn't wait for me. Now I'm going to get the apple." 
 The boy ran and ran, finally arriving at home. Throwing his bundle of 
wood 

into the empty kitchen, he asked his mother for the promised apple. 
 "Go upstairs to the storeroom. The apples are there in the chest. You 
can 

get three of them," said the mother. 
 They boy was not happy with this answer and told his mother that he 
wanted 

her to fetch the apples, as she did other times. 
 The mother finally gave in to the boy's wishes, and they went together 
to 

the storeroom and to the chest where the apples were. The boy was 
overjoyed at 

the sight of the apples. He clapped his hands, then leaned over into the 
chest 

to get his apples. While he was happily looking at them, his mother 
suddenly 

slammed the lid shut. The poor boy's head rolled into the chest, and his 
body 

lay there on the floor motionless and lifeless. The wicked mother took the 

corpse and hung it on a nail behind the storeroom door.  
 In the meantime the girl, who had fixed her broken shoulder strap, 
arrived 

with her bundle of wood. She unloaded it in the kitchen and asked her 
mother 
for an apple. The mother was very friendly, beckoned her nearer, and gave 
her a 
red apple. 
 The girl bit into the apple, and the mother went to the hearth to fix a 
noon 
meal for the father, who was chopping wood in the forest. 
 "Go upstairs to the storeroom and fetch me some flour and lard," said 
the 

mother to the girl. "But do not look behind the door." 
 The poor little sister went upstairs to the storeroom, and she did look 

behind the door, and she saw her poor dead brother hanging there. The girl 

cried so bitterly that a stone would have felt sorry for her. Tears 
dripped to 

the floor. Finally she had to go downstairs to her mother, and crying, she 

brought her the flour and lard she had asked for. 
 "Did you look behind the door?" the wicked mother asked the crying 
girl. 
 "Oh no," replied the poor child, crying even harder and holding her 
worn-out 

blue apron in front of her face. 
 The mother was satisfied with her answer and sent the sobbing girl out 
into 

the dark woods with the father's noon meal. 
 Today the girl took no pleasure in the squirrels that were climbing 
about in 

the fir trees, nor in the pinecones and wildflowers, but instead went her 
way 

quietly crying. She finally came to her father, who quickly reached for 
the 

soup, for he was hungry. He was very surprised to see meat in his soup 
today, 

because for a long time he had not even seen a little piece of meat, much 
less 

had one in his mouth. 
 He sat down beneath a large, beautiful beech tree and began to eat. He 
took 

the first piece of meat onto his bone spoon and was about to put it into 
his 

mouth when a little bird flew to the tree and began to sing: 
 Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman, 
My mother cut off my head, 
My sister carried me out, 
My father gnawed my bones clean, 
Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman. 
 The woodcutter found this very strange, and the little bird gave 
him 

no peace, singing over and over again: 
 Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman, 
My mother cut off my head, 
My sister carried me out, 
My father gnawed my bones clean, 
Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman. 
 The father felt more and more ill at ease, until even the 
rustling of 

the leaves frightened him. Then he went home with the poor girl, who was 
very 

sad and spoke not a word. 
 Meanwhile the wicked mother had busied herself packing away and hiding 
the 

dead boy. However, many, many little birds flattered around her, leaving 
her no 

peace and singing in a very sorrowful tone: 
 Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman, 
My mother cut off my head, 
My sister carried me out, 
My father gnawed my bones clean, 
Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman. 
 She wanted to drive away the innocent little creatures, but as 
she 

was shooing them away and chasing after them, the heavy storeroom door 
fell 

shut and cut off the wicked mother's head. 
 The father arrived at home, and inside everything was quiet and still. 
Only 

the birds were singing: 
 Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman, 
My mother cut off my head, 
My sister carried me out, 
My father gnawed my bones clean, 
Tweet, tweet, my mother is a worthless woman. 
 The father went upstairs into the storeroom, and opening the 
door he 

found his wicked wife and his poor little son, both lying dead on the 

floor. 
 And the story is done, 
So you must go home! 
Or should I tell you another 
About peas and fodder?