Hlakanyana met a boy tending some goats. The boy had a digging-stick
with him. Hlakanyana proposed that they should pursue after birds, and the
boy agreed. They pursued birds the whole day. 
 In the evening, when the sun set, Hlakanyana said, "It is time now to
roast our birds." 
 The place was on the bank of a river. 
 Hlakanyana said, "We must go under the water and see who will come out
last." 
 They went under the water, and Hlakanyana came out last. 
 The cunning fellow said, "Let us try again." 
 They boy agreed to that. They went under the water. Hlakanyana came out
quickly and ate all the birds. He left the heads only. Then he went under
the water again. The boy came out while he was still under the water. 
 When Hlakanyana came out he said, "Let us go now and eat our
birds." 
 They found all the birds eaten. 
 Hlakanyana said, "You have eaten them, because you came out of the
water first, and you have left me the heads only." 
 The boy denied having done so, but Hlakanyana said, "You must pay for
my birds with that digging-stick." 
 The boy gave the digging-stick, and Hlakanyana went on his way. 
 He saw some people making pots of clay. He said to them, "Why do you
not ask me to lend you this digging-stick, instead of digging with your
hands?" 
 They said, "Lend it to us." 
 Hlakanyana lent them the digging-stick. Just the first time they stuck
it in the clay it broke. 
 He said, "You have broken my digging-stick, the digging-stick that I
received from my companion, my companion who ate my birds and left me with
the heads." 
 They gave him a pot. 
 Hlakanyana carried the pot till he came to some boys who were herding
goats. He said to them, "You foolish boys, you only suck the goats. You
don't milk them in any vessel. Why don't you ask me to lend you this
pot?" 
 The boys said, "Lend it to us." 
 Hlakanyana lent them the pot. While the boys were milking, the pot
broke. Hlakanyana said, "You have broken my pot, the pot that I received
from the people who make pots, the people who broke my digging-stick, the
digging-stick that I received from my companion, my companion who ate my
birds and left me with the heads." 
 The boys gave him a goat. 
 Hlakanyana came to the keepers of calves said, "Allow us to suck this
goat." 
 Hlakanyana gave the goat into their hands. While they were sucking, the
goat died. 
 Hlakanyana said, "You have killed my goat, the goat that I received
from the boys that were tending goats, the boys that broke my pot, the pot
that I received from the people who make pots, the people who broke my
digging-stick, the digging-stick that I received from my companion, my
companion who ate my birds and left me with the heads." 
 They gave him a calf. 
 Hlakanyana came to the keepers of cows. 
 He said to them, "You only suck the cows without letting the calf suck
first. Why don't you ask me to lend you this calf, what the cows may be
induced to give their milk freely?" 
 They said, "Lend us the calf." 
 Hlakanyana permitted them to take the calf. While the calf was in their
hands it died. 
 Hlakanyana said, "You have killed my calf, the calf that I received
from the keepers of calves, the keepers of calves that killed my goat, the
goat that I received from the boys that were tending goats, the boys that
broke my pot, the pot that I received from the people who make pots, the
people who broke my digging-stick, the digging-stick that I received from
my companion, my companion who ate my birds and left me with the heads."  
 They gave him a cow. 
 Hlakanyana continued on his journey.