Once upon a time there was a woman who had an inn where she provided shelter to travelers. She had a daughter who was so beautiful that one could not imagine anyone more beautiful. The mother could not stand her, precisely because she was so beautiful, and always kept her locked up in a room so no one could see her. The only person who knew about her was the maid who brought food to her every day.  
One day it happened that the king wanted to spend the night at the inn. He arrived just as the maid was bringing food to the girl. Someone called the maid, and she forgot to close the door behind her. Noticing this, the innkeeper's daughter became curious and wanted to see the king. She stepped into the doorway, but when the king walked down the hall she quickly stepped back into the room. However, he saw her, and was completely blinded with her beauty.  
"Where is the beautiful girl whom I saw in the hallway?" he asked the maid who was serving him.   
"Oh, your majesty," she answered, "that is the innkeeper's daughter, and she is just as good as she is beautiful. But her mother keeps he locked up so that no one can see her."  
The king was so enchanted with her beauty that he wanted to marry her.  
Because he could not ask the mother for her hand, he called for the maid and said, "I shall remain here for a few days. Go to the daughter and ask her if she will be my wife."  
The maid went to the girl and said, "Just think, miss, the king wants to marry you, and he wants to know if you will flee with him and escape from this house where you are treated so badly."  
"Oh," answered the poor girl, "how would I be able to flee? My mother keeps such a strict watch over me."  
"Just leave it to me," answered the faithful maid.  
She then went to the king and said, "I know what you can do. Leave here tomorrow, as though you were returning to your home. Stop somewhere nearby. The girl will pretend to be sick, and I'll tell her mother that it is because she is always locked indoors. If she will let her go outside then I'll bring her to you. Take me with you, because I'll not be able to return without the girl."  
The king promised to do this, and the next day the king pretended to leave. However, he went only a short distance, then stopped at another inn, but without letting it be known that he was the king.  
The innkeeper's daughter pretended to be sick and refused to eat anything, losing more and more weight.  
"Just what does the girl have that makes her so ill?" asked the mother.  
"Of course the poor child is sick," answered the maid. She is always kept inside never gets any fresh air. Tomorrow let her go to the fair with me. Those few steps will bring her back to health."  
The mother agreed to this, and the next morning the maid and the daughter left for the fair. They were scarcely out of the mother's view when they rushed to the king, whose carriage was ready to go. He lifted the beautiful girl inside, and they rode away. He gave the faithful maid so much money that she was able to move to a different country with her entire family.  
The king arrived at his castle and introduced his fiancée to his mother.  
"This is my dear fiancée," he said, "and now we want to have a splendid wedding."  
The girl was so beautiful that the old queen accepted her immediately. There was a splendid wedding, and the king and his young wife lived together happily and contentedly.  
Nearly a year had passed when war broke out, and the king had to go off to battle.  
He said to the old queen, "Mother, dear, I must go away. I entrust my dear wife to you. If she should have a baby, let me know immediately, and take good care of it."  
With that he embraced his mother and his wife, and departed.  
Not long afterward the young queen gave birth to her first son, and the old queen took good care of her. She immediately wrote a letter to the king telling him of the birth of his son.   
The messenger carrying the letter to the king stopped to rest at the inn owned by the young queen's mother. Upon arriving there he ordered something to eat, and while he was eating, the innkeeper asked him where he was from and where he was going. He explained how he had been sent to report to the king the happy birth of his son. Hearing this, the innkeeper resolved to take revenge against her daughter for having escaped.  
The messenger lay down and fell asleep, whereupon the innkeeper took the letter from his pocket and replaced it with a different one, claiming that the young queen had been guilty of the worst infidelity and deserved the strictest punishment. This was the letter that the messenger brought to the king.   
This letter saddened the king greatly because he was so in love with his wife. Nonetheless, he wrote to the old queen that she should take good care of his wife and do nothing until he had returned. The messenger departed with this letter. Arriving at the inn, he once again ordered something to eat. The innkeeper asked if the king had sent a response with him.  
"Yes," he answered, "the letter is in my pocket."  
The messenger once again fell asleep after eating, and the innkeeper replaced the king's letter with a different one, wherein it was written that the young queen's hands should be chopped off, the child should be tied to her maimed arms, and that the two of them should be thus exiled into the wide world.   
After receiving this letter the old queen cried bitterly, for she dearly loved her daughter-in-law.  
However, the young queen meekly said, "I shall do whatever my lord and husband commands!"  
With that she had her own hands chopped off. The child was then tied to her arms so that she could nurse it. She then embraced the old queen and wandered away, far away into a dark forest.  
After wandering a great while she came to a little brook. Because she was very tired she sat down.  
"Oh," she thought, "if only I had my hands I would not be so helpless. Then I could wash out my child's diaper and dress him with clean clothes. As it is, my innocent child shall soon die."  
As she thus spoke and wept, an old and distinguished man suddenly appeared before her and asked why she was crying. She told him of her sorrow and how she innocently had been inflicted with such severe punishment.  
"Don't cry," said the old man. "Come with me, and all will go well with you."   
He led her a little further into the woods, then he struck the ground with his staff, and suddenly a castle appeared, much grander than the king's castle. A garden was there as well, and the king himself did not have a better one. The old man was Saint Joseph, and he had come to the aid of the innocent young queen.  
The young queen and her child lived with Saint Joseph in the beautiful castle, and because she was so good, Saint Joseph caused her hands to grow back. The child grew large and strong, and every day became more beautiful.  
But now we shall leave the queen and see what is happening with the king.  
The war ended, and the king sorrowfully returned to his castle. His wife's infidelity broke his heart.  
"What have you done with my wife?" he asked his mother.  
"Oh, you wicked man," answered the queen, weeping, "how could you cause your innocent wife to suffer so greatly?"  
"What!" he cried. "Did you not write to me that she was guilty of great infidelity."  
"You say that I wrote that to you?" said the queen. "I reported the happy birth of your son, and you replied that I should have her hands chopped off and exiled into the wide world with her child."  
"I wrote no such thing!" cried the king.  
Then the two of them brought forth the letters, and said that they had not written them.  
"Oh, my dear innocent child!" sobbed the old queen. "Now you are surely dead!"  
Great sadness fell over the castle, and the king was so miserable that he turned seriously ill. He finally recovered but remained wretchedly unhappy.  
One day the old queen said to him, "My son, the weather is beautiful, why don't you go hunting? Perhaps it will distract you."  
So the king mounted his horse and sadly rode into the woods, but without hunting. Because of his grief he did not pay attention to where he was going, and soon found himself lost in the dense forest. His attendants did not dare to say anything to him. As it was growing dark the king wanted to turn back, but no one knew the right way, so they blundered ever deeper into the woods. Finally they saw a light in the distance, and following it they came to the beautiful castle where the young queen was living.  
They knocked, and Saint Joseph opened the door and asked what they wanted.  
"Oh, my good old man," answered the king.  "Could you give us shelter for the night? We are lost and cannot find our way back home."  
Saint Joseph invited them in, fed them, and offered them good beds. However, the young queen and her son did not show themselves.  
The next morning, while the king was at breakfast, Saint Joseph went to the young queen and said, "The king has spent the night here. Now is the moment when your sorrows shall cease."  
The queen dressed her son in his best clothes, and Saint Joseph had him go to the king, kiss his hand, and say, "Good morning, papa, I would like to eat breakfast with you."  
Seeing the beautiful child, the king was very moved, but did not know why. Then the door opened and the young queen entered with Saint Joseph. She bowed before the king. He recognized his beloved wife and embraced her and his little son.  
Saint Joseph approached them, saying, "All your sorrows are now at an end. Live happily and contentedly, and if ever you have a wish, just call on me, for I am Saint Joseph."  
With that he blessed them and disappeared. The castle disappeared at the same time, leaving the king, the queen, their son and the attendants all standing in the woods. Before them they saw the pathway that led out of the woods and back to their castle. They came to the old queen who was happy from the bottom of her heart to see once again her beloved daughter-in-law and her little grandson. Then all together they lived happily and contentedly, but we, we went away with nothing.