A beautiful woman, whose husband had traveled abroad, fell in love with
a handsome young man, who in turn came into difficulty with the law.
Claiming that the young man was her brother, she asked the wali to support
his case, and he acceded, but only if she would be his lover. She
consented, giving him her address and setting a time for their tryst. She
next petitioned a qadi. He too agreed to intercede on her brother's
behalf, in return for her love, and she set the same time for his arrival
that had been reserved for the wali. Then she went to a vizier, who, like
the others, pledged his help, in exchange for her promise of intimacy, and
his appointment was set for the same time as his predecessors. Next she
took her petition to the king, and he too guaranteed a good outcome for
her brother's case, if she would accept him as a lover. The arrangements
were quickly made. 
 The woman then went to a carpenter and ordered from him a cabinet with
four compartments, one above the other. "My price is four dinars or your
affection" he said. 
 "Let it be the latter," she replied. "But only if you make a cabinet
with five compartments, instead of four." The carpenter consented. The
work was soon finished, and she told him when to return for his promised
reward. 
 The appointed trysting day came. The qadi was the first to arrive, and
she asked him to take off his clothes and put on a brightly colored,
strangely cut robe. He had scarcely done so when there was a knock at the
door. "It is my husband!" she cried. "Hide in the cabinet!" And she locked
him in the lowermost compartment. So it went with the wali, the vizier,
and the king. 
 The carpenter was the last to arrive. She lured him into the cabinet's
top compartment by complaining that, contrary to her instructions, it had
been built too narrow to hold a man. "Not so," said the carpenter, and
climbed inside to prove his claim. The woman locked the door on her final
suitor, and then abandoned the place, departing with her young lover for
another city. 
 Three days passed, and the carpenter, unable to hold his water any
longer, relieved himself on the man beneath him. Each captive did the
same, turning the cabinet into a sewer of filth. With time the neighbors
entered the woman's lodgings and freed the befouled and strangely costumed
suitors. Thus ends the story of the woman who tricked her five
suitors.