In a remote wood there lived a monkey, and one day while he was eating
wood-apples, a sharp thorn from the tree ran into the tip of his tail. He
tried his best to get it out, but could not. So he proceeded to the
nearest village, and calling the barber, asked him to oblige him by
removing the thorn. 
 "Friend barber," said the monkey, "a thorn has run into my tail. Kindly
remove it, and I will reward you." 
 The barber took up his razor and began to examine the tail. But as he
was cutting out the thorn, he cut off the tip of the tail.  
 The monkey was greatly enraged and said, "Friend barber, give me back
my tail. If you cannot do that, give me your razor." 
 The barber was now in a difficulty, and as he could not replace the tip
of the tail, he had to give up his razor to the monkey. 
 The monkey went back to the wood with his razor thus trickishly
acquired. On the way he met an old woman who was cutting fuel from a
dried-up tree. 
 "Grandmother, grandmother," said the monkey, "the tree is very hard.
You had better use this sharp razor, and you will cut your fuel
easily." 
 The poor woman was very pleased, and took the razor from the monkey. In
cutting the wood she, of course, blunted the razor, and the monkey, seeing
his razor thus spoiled, said, "Grandmother, you have spoiled my razor, so
you must either give me your fuel or get me a better razor." 
 The woman was not able to procure another razor, so she gave the monkey
her fuel and returned to her house bearing no load that day. 
 The roguish monkey now put the bundle of dry fuel on his head and
proceeded to a village to sell it. There he met an old woman seated by the
roadside and making puddings. Said the monkey to her, "Grandmother,
grandmother, you are making puddings and your fuel is already exhausted.
Use mine also and make more cakes." 
 The old lady thanked him for his kindness and used his fuel for her
puddings. the cunning monkey waited till the last stick of his fuel was
burnt up, and then he said to the old woman, " Grandmother, grandmother,
return me my fuel or give me all your puddings." 
 She was unable to return him the fuel, and so had to give him all her
puddings. 
 The monkey with the basket of puddings on his head walked and walked
till he met a Pariah [member of a low caste] coming with his tom-tom
towards him. "Brother Pariah," said the monkey, "I have a basketful of
puddings to give you. Will you, in return, present me with your
tom-tom?" 
 The Pariah gladly agreed, as he was then very hungry, and had nothing
with him to eat. 
 The monkey now ascended with the tom-tom to the topmost branch of a big
tree and there beat his drum most triumphantly, saying in honor of his
several tricks: 
 I lost my tail and got a razor; dum, dum. 
I lost my razor and got a bundle of fuel; dum, dum. 
I lost my fuel and got a basket of puddings; dum, dum. 
I lost my puddings and got a tom-tom; dum, dum. 
 Thus there are rogues in this innocent world, who live to glory over
their wicked tricks.