In a little old house in a little old village in Japan lived a little old 
man and his little old wife.   
One morning when the old woman slid open the screens which form the sides 
of all Japanese houses, she saw, on the doorstep, a poor little sparrow. 
She took him up gently and fed him. Then she held him in the bright 
morning sunshine until the cold dew was dried from his wings. Afterward 
she let him go, so that he might fly home to his nest, but he stayed to 
thank her with his songs.   
Each morning, when the pink on the mountain tops told that the sun was 
near, the sparrow perched on the roof of the house and sang out his joy. 
The old man and woman thanked the sparrow for this, for they liked to be 
up early and at work. But near them there lived a cross old woman who did 
not like to be awakened so early. At last she became so angry that she 
caught the sparrow and cut his tongue. Then the poor little sparrow flew 
away to his home, but he could never sing again.   
When the kind woman knew what had happened to her pet she was very sad. 
She said to her husband, "Let us go and find our poor little sparrow." So 
they started together, and asked of each bird by the wayside, "Do you know 
where the tongue-cut sparrow lives? Do you know where the tongue-cut 
sparrow went?"   
In this way they followed until they came to a bridge. They did not know 
which way to turn, and at first could see no one to ask. At last they saw 
a bat hanging head downward, taking his daytime nap. "Oh, friend bat, do 
you know where the tongue-cut sparrow went?" they asked.   
"Yes. Over the bridge and up the mountain," said the bat. Then he blinked 
sleepy eyes and was fast asleep again.   
They went over the bridge and up the mountain, but again they found two 
roads and did not know which one to take. A little field mouse peeped 
through the leaves and grass, so they asked him, "Do you know where the 
tongue-cut sparrow went?"   
"Yes. Down the mountain and through the woods," said the field mouse.   
Down the mountain and through the woods they went, and at last came to the 
home of their little friend.   
When he saw them coming the poor little sparrow was very happy indeed. He 
and his wife and children all came and bowed their heads down to the 
ground to show their respect. Then the sparrow rose and led the old man 
and the old woman into his house, while his wife and children hastened to 
bring them boiled rice, fish, cress, and saké.   
After they had feasted, the sparrow wished to please them still more, so 
he danced for them what is called the "sparrow dance."   
When the sun began to sink, the old man and woman started for home. The 
sparrow brought out two baskets. "I would like to give you one of these," 
he said. "Which will you take?" One basket was large and looked very full, 
while the other one seemed very small and light.   
The old people so thought they would not take the large basket, for that 
might have all the sparrow's treasure in it, so they said, "The way is 
long and we are very old, so please let us take the smaller one."   
They took it and walked home over the mountain and across the bridge, 
happy and contented. When they reached their own home they decided to open 
the basket and see what the sparrow had given them. Within the basket they 
found many rolls of silk and piles of gold, enough to make them rich, so 
they were more grateful than ever to the sparrow.   
The cross old woman who had cut the sparrow's tongue was peering in 
through the screen when they opened their basket. She saw the rolls of 
silk and the piles of gold, and planned how she might get some for 
herself.   
The next morning she went to the kind woman and said, "I am so sorry that 
I cut the tongue of your sparrow. Please tell me the way to his home so 
that I may go to him and tell him I am sorry."   
The kind woman told her the way and she set out. She went across the 
bridge, over the mountain, and through the woods. At last she came to the 
home of the little sparrow. He was not so glad to see this old woman, yet 
he was very kind to her and did everything to make her feel welcome. They 
made a feast for her, and when she started home the sparrow brought out 
two baskets as before. Of course the woman chose the large basket, for she 
thought that would have even more wealth than the other one.   
It was very heavy, and caught on the trees as she was going through the 
wood. She could hardly pull it up the mountain with her, and she was all 
out of breath when she reached the top. She did not get to the bridge 
until it was dark. Then she was so afraid of dropping the basket into the 
river that she scarcely dared to step. When at last she reached home she 
was so tired that she was half dead, but she pulled the screens close 
shut, so that no one could look in, and opened her treasure.   
Treasure indeed! A whole swarm of horrible creatures burst from the basket 
the moment she opened it. They stung her and bit her, they pushed her and 
pulled her, they scratched her and laughed at her screams. At last she 
crawled to the edge of the room and slid aside the screen to get away from 
the pests. The moment the door was opened they swooped down upon her, 
picked her up, and flew away with her. Since then nothing has ever been 
heard of the old woman.