Once upon a time there lived an old sheep in a low-lying valley of Tibet, 
and every year she, with her lamb, were in the habit of leaving the valley 
during the early months of summer, and going up on to the great northern 
plateau, where grass is plentiful, and where many sheep and goats graze 
throughout the summer. One spring the sheep, in accordance with her annual 
custom, set out for the north, and one day, as she was strolling sedately 
along the path, while her little lamb skipped about beside her, she 
suddenly came face to face with a large, fierce-looking wolf.   
"Good morning, Aunty Sheep," said the wolf; "where are you going to?"   
"Oh! Uncle Wolf," replied the trembling sheep, "we are doing no harm; I am 
just taking my lamb to graze on the rich grass of the great northern 
plateau."   
" Well," said the wolf, " I am really very sorry for you; but the fact is, 
I am hungry, and it will be necessary for me to eat you both on the spot." 
  
"Please, please, Uncle Wolf, don't do that," replied the sheep. "Please 
don't eat us now; but if you will wait till the autumn, when we shall both 
be very much fatter than we are now, you can eat us with much more benefit 
to yourself on our return journey."   
The wolf thought this was a good idea. "Very well, Aunty Sheep," said he, 
"that is a bargain. I will spare your lives now, but only on condition 
that you meet me at this very spot on your return journey from the north 
in the autumn."   
So saying, he galloped off, and the sheep and the lamb continued on their 
way towards the north, and soon forgot all about their encounter with the 
wolf. All the summer they grazed about on the succulent grass of the great 
plateau, and when autumn was approaching both were as fat as fat could be, 
and the little lamb had grown into a fine young sheep.   
When the time came for returning to the south, the sheep remembered her 
bargain with the wolf, and every day as they drew farther and farther 
south she grew more and more downhearted. One day, as they were 
approaching the place where they had met the wolf, it chanced that a hare 
came hopping along the road towards them.   
The hare stopped to say good morning to the sheep, and noticing that she 
was looking very sad, he said, "Good-morning, Sister Sheep, how is it that 
you, who are so fat and have so fine a lamb, are looking so sad this 
morning?"   
"Oh! Brother Hare," replied the sheep, "mine is a very sad story. The fact 
is that last spring, as I and my lamb were coming up this very road, we 
met an ugly- looking wolf, who said he was going to eat us; but I begged 
him to spare our lives, explaining to him that we should both be much 
larger and fatter in the autumn, and that he would get much better value 
from us if he waited till then. The wolf agreed to this, and said that we 
must meet him at the same spot in the autumn. We are now very near the 
appointed place, and I very much fear that in another day or two we shall 
both be killed by the wolf." So saying, the poor sheep broke down 
altogether and burst into tears.   
"Dear me! Dear me!" replied the hare. "This is indeed a sad story; but 
cheer up, Sister Sheep, you may leave it to me, and I think I can answer 
for it that I know how to manage the wolf."   
So saying, the hare made the following arrangements. He dressed himself up 
in his very best clothes, in a new robe of woolen cloth, with a long 
earring in his left ear, and a fashionable hat on his head, and strapped a 
small saddle on to the back of the sheep. He then prepared two small 
bundles, which he slung across the lamb, and tied them on with a rope. 
When these preparations were complete, he took a large sheet of paper in 
his hand, and, with a pen thrust behind his ear, he mounted upon the back 
of the sheep, and the little procession started off down the path.   
Soon after, they arrived at the place where they were to meet the wolf, 
and sure enough there was the wolf waiting for them at the appointed spot. 
  
As soon as they came within earshot of where the wolf was standing the 
hare called out in a sharp tone of authority, "Who are you, and what are 
you doing there?"   
"I am the wolf," was the reply; " and I have come here to eat this sheep 
and its lamb, in accordance with a regular arrangement. Who may you be, 
pray?"   
"I am Lomden, the hare," that animal replied, "and I have been deputed to 
India on a special mission by the Emperor of China. And, by the way, I 
have a commission to bring ten wolf skins as a present to the King of 
India. What a fortunate thing it is that I should have met you here! Your 
skin will do for one, anyway."   
So saying, the hare produced his sheet of paper, and, taking his pen in 
his hand, he wrote down the figure "1" very large.   
The wolf was so frightened on hearing this that he turned tail and fled 
away ignominiously; while the sheep and the lamb, after thanking the hare 
heartily for his kind offices, continued their journey safely to their own 
home.