A rich man was once walking about in his garden. He was cheerful and
happy. Suddenly he noticed a small bird that had been captured in a small
net. He took hold of it and was more than a little surprised when it began
to speak, saying, "Give me my freedom, dear man! Of what use is it to you
to lock me in a cage? Looking at me will not please you, for I do not have
beautiful feathers. I cannot entertain you, for I do not sing like other
birds. And I cannot provide you with nourishment. I am much too small for
that. But I will tell you three wise teachings if you will give my
freedom." 
 The master of the garden looked at the little creature and said, "If
you do not sing then of course you cannot entertain me. Let me hear your
wisdom, and if it teaches me anything, I will give you your freedom." 
 Then the little bird said, "First: Do not grieve over things that have
already happened. Second: Do not wish for that which is unattainable.
Third: Do not believe in that which cannot be possible." 
 Then the master of the garden said, "You have indeed taught me
something. I will give you your freedom." 
 Letting the bird fly away, he thought seriously about its words. Then
he heard it laughing quietly. Its voice came from a tree where the bird
was sitting. 
 "Why are you laughing so cheerfully?" shouted the man. 
 "About my easily won freedom," answered the bird, "and more than that,
about the foolishness of humans who believe they are smarter than all
other creatures. If you had been smarter, only just as smart as I am, then
you would now be the richest man." 
 "How would that have been possible?" asked the master of the
garden. 
 The bird replied, "If, instead of giving me my freedom, you had kept
me, for in my body I have a diamond the size of a hen's egg." 
 The man stood there as though he were petrified. After recovering from
the surprise, he began to speak, "You think that you are happy because I
gave you your freedom. But summer will soon be over and winter with its
storms will arrive. The brooks will freeze over, and you will not be able
to find a single drop of water to quench your thirst. The fields will be
covered with snow, and you will not find anything to eat. But I will give
you a warm place where you can freely fly around, and you can have as much
water and bread as you want. Come down, and I will show you that you are
better off with me than with your freedom."  
 Thus spoke the master of the garden, but the little bird laughed louder
than before, making the man even angrier. 
 "You are still laughing?" asked the man. 
 "Of course," replied the bird. "See, you gave me my freedom on account
of the teachings that I gave you, and now you are so foolish that you do
not take the teachings to heart. I earned my freedom fairly, but you
forgot my teachings after only a few minutes. You should not grieve over
things that have already happened, but still you are grieving that you
gave me my freedom. You should not wish for things that you cannot obtain,
and yet you want me, for whom freedom is my whole life, to voluntarily
enter a prison. You should not believe that which is impossible, and yet
you believe that I am carrying about inside my body a diamond as large as
a hen's egg, although I myself am only half the size of a hen's egg." 
 And with that the bird flew away.