Once upon a time there was a cheerful wanderer who went into a tavern to 
drink a glass of wine.   
The hostess said, "Where are you coming from?"   
"I have just come from heaven!" said the stranger.   
"What do you say! You have come from heaven?" said the woman.   
"But of course," he replied.   
"Well, then," said the woman, "you must have seen my blessed husband. His 
name is Hans."   
"But of course I have seen him," said the stranger. "I know him very well. 
We have always been good friends with each other."   
"Good heavens!" said the woman. "What do you say! Have you really seen 
him? And spoken with him? And know him?"   
"Why not?" replied the man.   
"For heaven's sake!" said the woman. "How is he then?"   
"Oh, just so-so. Not the very best," said the stranger. "It is difficult 
to get by up there. He has to work hard, and the wages 
are very low. The last time I saw him he just about did not have a whole 
shirt on his body."   
"For pity's sake!" sobbed the woman. "If only I knew," she continued, "how 
I could send something back to him. I would 
like to give him something. I have enough here, thank heaven!"   
"Oh!" said the wanderer. "That would be good. I am going back right away, 
and I could take something to him, whatever 
you would like to send him. I would be glad to do it!"   
"Oh, my dear friend," said the woman, "you say that he no longer has a 
shirt on his body, a whole one? I just had a half 
dozen new ones made for my oldest son. They would also fit my blessed 
husband. Would you take them along?"   
"Gladly!" he said.   
"And these three hundred florins as well?"   
"Those as well," he said. "I can manage to carry them."   
"Oh heaven," she continued, "and I have half a ham and a few sausages -- 
he always liked them so much!"   
The stranger took these as well, and then, while saying a thousand thanks, 
he set forth on his journey.   
When the hostess's oldest son came home and learned from his mother what 
had happened, he quickly saddled his horse 
and chased after the traveler from heaven. The latter, in good spirits, 
had walked into the country and had just sat down at 
the edge of some woods. When he saw the rider galloping toward him he 
sensed that it meant trouble. He immediately set 
his hat on the ground and pretended to be carefully watching over it.   
When the rider came near he stopped and asked the wanderer if he was the 
man who was traveling to heaven.   
"Yes indeed," he said. "I am the one."   
"Then," he shouted, "give me at once the money that you were to take to my 
father!"   
"Whatever you want," said the traveler. "It is all the same to me. If you 
don't want your father to have it, then I won't have to 
carry it. But you will have to wait a little while. I have caught a very 
valuable and rare bird under my hat. It is worth at least 
three hundred florins. I sent a man into town to fetch a cage for me. 
Because he did not have anything to carry, I gave the 
man the three hundred florins that your father was to have. When he comes 
back with the cage then you will have to ride to 
town with me."   
The son agreed to do this, and he remained there.   
After a while the traveler from heaven said, "If you would watch over this 
bird very carefully then I could run after the man 
right now, otherwise he may not come back very soon. Or, it would be even 
faster if you would lend me your horse. Then I 
would be back immediately, and you could return home in good time."   
The son thought that this proposal made good sense. He agreed to it at 
once and let the traveler mount his horse. 
Meanwhile, he kept watch over the valuable bird under the hat.   
There he sat, and after sitting there for several hours the traveler from 
heaven still had not returned with the horse and the 
money. He could not leave his post because of the valuable bird, which he 
considered to be security for the three hundred florins.   
Evening came, and finally he decided to pick up the bird in his hand and 
take it into town himself. Very carefully he lifted the 
hat a little, so that he could reach his hand under it. It was not a bird 
that he took hold of, but something entirely different, 
something that he never told anyone about.   
Suddenly he decided to return home to his mother. She was surprised that 
he came home so late, and without his horse. He 
told her that he had decided to give the horse as well to the traveler 
from heaven, so that he could deliver the things more 
quickly to his father. She was satisfied with this answer. The son did not 
have anything further to say about the matter.