Once upon a time there was a king. His wife bore him only one son, and
he had not much pleasure with him, for a wicked witch had transformed him
into a wild pig. The king and queen were very sad about this, but because
things that have happened cannot be changed, they finally came to terms
with the situation. They allowed the wild pig to run about the courtyard
and the palace garden, where he behaved himself very well and did no one
any harm.
 Not far from the king's castle there was another castle where a rich
lord lived who had three daughters, each one more beautiful than the
others. One day the wild pig ran off further than usual and saw the oldest
daughter as she was picking flowers in a field. She pleased him so much
that he fell head over heels in love with her, and with all his might he
wanted to marry her.
 The king tried to convince him, that this would not be possible, but to
no avail. The wild pig would hear none of this, saying further that if she
would not become his wife then he would die of grief. So the king sent
someone to the lord of the castle and informed him how things stood. At
first the lord was not very pleased with the proposal, but after
considering that the prince would otherwise die, he gave his consent.
However, the daughter did not approve and said -- to the contrary -- that
she would rather do God-knows-what than to have a disgusting pig for a
husband. But that did not help her, and over her objections, the king
forced her to accept, and the wedding was celebrated with the greatest
pomp in the world.
 When it got late, and everyone was going to bed, the bride too lay
herself down to sleep. The wild pig wanted to lie next to her, but when he
jumped into bed, he unfortunately struck her on the neck with his heavy
feet, and -- she was dead. No pen can describe how sad were the wild pig
and the king and the parents of the bride.
 One year later the wild pig ran astray once again and found the rich
lord's second daughter in the field. She pleased him so much that he
wanted to marry her, whatever it might cost. The king made many excuses,
but it was like throwing oil into the fire, and in the end there was
nothing left to do but to talk with the lord about it. He did not want to
hear anything about it, and he opposed the marriage with all his power,
saying that he had not raised his daughters for pigs and the like.
 The king reported this to his son, who insisted even more fervently
than before. Thus the king had to force the parents to marry off their
daughter. With tears and crying the bride was taken from her castle and
dragged to the wedding. It was a sad affair, as though each of the guests
could foresee that the second bride would fare no better than had the
first one. And that is exactly what happened, because when the bridegroom
wanted to jump into bed, he hit her on the neck with his plump feet, and
-- she was dead.
 The sorrow cannot be described that ruled in the king's castle as well
as in the other castle. The wild pig was beside himself because of what
had happened, and he struck his head against the walls as if he were tired
of living. The bride's parents could not be consoled. Of three daughters,
they now had only one, who was still a tender young girl, and they were
afraid of losing her as they had the others. Thus they wanted to pack
their belongings and move to a foreign country. When the king heard this,
he became even sadder than before, and even angrier with his son. He asked
the rich lord to remain in his castle and promised him that he would drive
away the wild pig immediately.
 And he kept this promise. The poor prince was driven out of the castle
without pity or compassion, and he ran into a nearby forest.
 The rich lord's third daughter was a beautiful girl, and because she
was as good as an angel, her parents no longer thought about the terrible
way they had lost their other daughters.
 One day everyone left castle to go walking in the woods. The girl liked
the beautiful wildflowers so much that she could not pick enough of them,
and the birds sang so beautifully that she could not hear them enough. She
picked and picked, and listened and listened. Thus she fell further behind
the others until she was finally all by herself. While she sat there
picking flowers, a wild pig suddenly ran up to her, took her on his back,
and ran away with her.
 Her father and mother called and called, and the other people looked
everywhere, but the girl could not be found, and that evening they had to
return to the castle without the poor girl.
 The wild pig did not eat her up, but instead carried her a long way off
to a deep cave, where no person would dare to enter. He set the girl down
quietly and gently and made a bed for her from soft moss. He ran back into
the woods and returned with flowers and strawberries. In short, he did
everything he could to please the girl, as far as he could tell from her
eyes.
 Now I don't have to tell you that the wild pig was none other than the
enchanted prince. The girl felt more and more at ease, and finally she
began to stroke the wild pig's coarse bristly head with her hands. He
licked her hands and was so happy that tears ran from his eyes.
 "Why are you crying?" asked the girl.
 "Why should I not cry?" said the wild pig. "You could redeem me, but I
know that you will not do so."
 This saddened the girl, and she herself began to cry, saying, "Oh yes,
I want to redeem you, wild pig, just tell me what I have to do."
 The pig answered, "And what if I tell you, and you still don't do it?
But I will tell you: You must take me as your husband, and marry me, and
be my wife."
 With that the girl laughed and jumped up and said, "If that is all I
have to do, then I will redeem you."
 When the wild pig heard this he jumped up three times with joy. Then he
ran off and brought back enough soft green moss to make a bed in which
they could comfortably sleep together.
 That night the girl had an unusual dream. She thought that someone told
her to get up early the next morning and take the large pelt that she
would find next to the bed. Then she should leave the cave, close it off
with a stone, and on this stone burn the pelt to ashes. This seemed very
strange to her.
 At the day's first dawning she looked out of the bed and did indeed see
a large pelt, like one from a wild pig, lying there. The girl took
courage, went to the cave's entrance, and with all the power she could
muster rolled a heavy stone that lay nearby to the entrance. Then she made
a large fire, and as soon as it was burning well, she threw the pelt into
it. It had scarcely begun to burn when a pitiful crying and moaning
sounded from within the cave. The girl would have liked to open the cave,
but the stone had become too hot, and she would have burned her hands
terribly on it. After the fire was out and the stone had cooled off a
little, she shoved the stone aside, as best she could. The most handsome
prince that one can imagine stood before her. He threw his arms around her
neck and cried, "Now do you see that you have redeemed me? You are mine
and I am yours, and if your two sisters had been as willing as you, then
they would not be dead!"
 The prince left the cave with the girl and went to the king's castle
and explained everything to him and to the queen. The girl's parents were
summoned from the other castle, and he explained everything to them. Three
days later they held the wedding with great pomp and ceremony, and one has
never seen a more handsome bridegroom than the prince or a more beautiful
bride than the girl.
 Not long afterward the old king died. The prince came to the throne,
and the girl became his queen, and if they have not stood up from throne,
then they are still seated upon it.