Warin was a count of Altorf and Ravensburg in Swabia.  His son's name
was Isenbart, and the son's wife's name was Irmentrut.  It happened that
not far from Altorf a poor woman brought three children to the world at
the same time.  When Countess Irmentrut heard this, she exclaimed, "It is
impossible that this woman had three children from one husband without
committing adultery."  She said this publicly in the presence of her
husband Count Isenbart and court officials, adding that this adulteress
deserved nothing more than to be sewn into a sack and drowned.
 The next year the countess herself became pregnant and, during the
count's absence, gave birth to twelve babies, all boys.
 Shaking and trembling that she, according to her own words, would be
accused of adultery, she ordered a servant woman to take eleven of the
babies (for she kept one) to the nearest brook and to drown them.
 The old woman put the eleven innocent boys into a large tub to carry
them to the brook, named Scherz Brook.  But as God willed it, Isenbart
himself came by and asked the old woman what she was carrying.  She
answered that she had some whelps or young puppies.
 "Let me see is some of them can be used later for breeding," said the
count.
 "Oh, you have dogs enough," said the old woman, backing away.  "It
would give you the creeps to see this messy tangle of dogs."  
 But the count did give in and forced her to uncover the children and
show them to him.
 Seeing the eleven babies, small but still of noble form and manner, he
asked her immediately and sternly whose children they were.  The old woman
told him everything, how his wife had had the babies and why they were to
be killed.  The count then ordered that these "whelps" [welfs] be brought
to a rich miller who lived in the vicinity and who would raise them.  He
further ordered the old woman to return to her mistress without fear or
embarrassment and to tell her nothing except that her errand had been
carried out.
 Six years later the count brought the eleven boys, nobly dressed and
groomed, to his castle (where the convent vineyard now stands).  He
invited all his friends and was making merry.  When the meal was nearly
over he had the eleven children brought in, all dressed in red.  They all
had the same complexion, build, size, and form as the twelfth child that
the countess had kept.  Everyone could see that they had all been produced
by the same father and been carried beneath the heart of the same mother.
 Then the count stood up and ceremoniously asked his friends what sort
of death a woman deserved who would attempt to kill eleven such
magnificent boys.  Hearing these words, the countess fell to the floor
powerless and unconscious, for her heart told her that this was her flesh
and blood.  After she had been brought back to consciousness, she fell
crying at the count's feet, and begged him pitifully for mercy.  The
friends too intervened on her behalf, and so the count forgave her of the
simplicity and childlike naiveté that had led to the crime.  Thank
God that the children lived.
 As an eternal reminder of this miraculous event the count decreed, in
the presence of his friends, that his progeny should no longer be known as
the Counts of Altorf, but instead as the Welfs, and that his entire
lineage should be known as the Welfs.