A hare and a fox were traveling together. It was wintertime. Nothing green 
was growing, and neither mice nor lice were creeping afield.    
"This is hungry weather," said the fox to the hare. "My insides are all 
knotted together."   
"Yes, indeed," answered the hare. "There are hard times everywhere. I 
would eat my own ears if I could get them into my mouth."   
Thus they marched hungrily onward together. Then in the distance they saw 
a peasant girl approaching them. She was carrying a basket, and the fox 
and the hare sensed a pleasant smell coming from the basket, the smell of 
fresh bread rolls.   
"Do you know what!" said the fox. "Lie down and pretend to be dead. The 
girl will set her basket down and pick you up for your poor pelt, because 
hare pelts can be made into gloves. Meanwhile I'll make off with the 
basket of rolls, all for our benefit."    
The hare did what the fox suggested: he fell down and pretended to be 
dead. 
The fox hid behind a snowdrift. The girl came and saw the hare with all 
four legs stretched out. She set down the basket, and bent over the hare. 
The fox quickly snatched up the basket and ran off across the field. 
The hare immediately came to life and hurried after his companion.  
However, the fox showed no sign of sharing the rolls, but instead made it 
clear that he intended to eat all of them by himself. 
This did not please the hare at all.  
They were approaching a small pond, 
and the hare said to the fox, "Why don't we catch some fish for our meal? 
Then we could have fish with white bread, just like grand gentlemen! Just 
lower your tail into the water, then the fish, who themselves don't have 
much to eat these days, will grab onto it. But you'd better hurry, before the 
pond freezes over."   
The fox thought that this was a good plan, so he went to the pond, which 
was just about to freeze over, and hung his tail into the water. In a 
short time the fox's tail was frozen tightly in the ice. Then the hare 
took the basket of rolls and slowly ate them, one after the other, before 
the fox's eyes.   
Finally he said to the fox, "Just wait until it thaws! Just wait until 
springtime! Just wait until it thaws!"   
And then he ran away, leaving the fox yelping after him, yelping like an 
angry dog on a chain.