Once upon a time there was a good housewife, who had seven hungry 
children. One day she was busy frying pancakes for them, and this time she 
had used new milk in the making of them. One was lying in the pan, 
frizzling away -- ah! so beautiful and thick -- it was a pleasure to look 
at it. The children were standing round the fire, and the husband sat in 
the corner and looked on. 
 "Oh, give me a bit of pancake, mother, I am so hungry!" said one 
child. 
 "Ah, do! dear mother," said the second. 
 "Ah, do! dear, good mother," said the third. 
 "Ah, do! dear, good, kind mother," said the fourth. 
 "Ah, do! dear, good, kind, nice mother," said the fifth. 
 "Ah, do! dear, good, kind, nice, sweet mother," said the sixth. 
 "Ah, do! dear, good, kind, nice, sweet, darling mother," said the 
seventh. And thus they were all begging for pancakes, the one more 
prettily than the other, because they were so hungry, and such good little 
children. 
 "Yes, children dear, wait a bit until it turns itself," she answered -- 
she ought to have said "until I turn it" -- "and then you shall all have 
pancakes, beautiful pancakes, made of new milk -- only look how thick and 
happy it lies there." 
 When the pancake heard this, it got frightened, and all of a sudden, it 
turned itself and wanted to get out of the pan, but it fell down in it 
again on the other side, and when it had been fried a little on that side 
too, it felt a little stronger in the back, jumped out on the floor, and 
rolled away, like a wheel, right through the door and down the road. 
 "Halloo!" cried the good wife, and away she ran after it, with the 
frying pan in one hand and the ladle in the other, as fast as she could, 
and the children behind her, while the husband came limping after, last of 
all. 
 "Halloo, won't you stop? Catch it, stop it. Halloo there!" they all 
screamed, the one louder than the other, trying to catch it on the run, 
but the pancake rolled and rolled, and before long, it was so far ahead, 
that they could not see it, for the pancake was much smarter on its legs 
than any of them. 
 When it had rolled a time, it met a man. 
 "Good day, pancake!" said the man. 
 "Well met, Manny Panny," said the pancake. 
 "Dear pancake," said the man, "don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and 
let me eat you." 
 "When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and seven 
squalling children, I must run away from you too, Manny Panny," said the 
pancake, and rolled on and on, until it met a hen. 
 "Good day, pancake," said the hen. 
 "Good day, Henny Penny," said the pancake. 
 "My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eat 
you," said the hen. 
 "When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and seven 
squalling children, and from Manny Panny, I must run away from you too, 
Henny Penny," said the pancake, and rolled on like a wheel down the road. 
Then it met a cock. 
 "Good day, pancake," said the cock. 
 "Good day, Cocky Locky," said the pancake. 
 "My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eat 
you," said the cock. 
 "When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and seven 
squalling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, I must run away 
from you too, Cocky Locky," said the pancake, and rolled and rolled on as 
fast as it could. When it had rolled a long time, it met a duck. 
 "Good day, pancake," said the duck. 
 "Good day, Ducky Lucky," said the pancake. 
 "My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eat 
you," said the duck. 
 "When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and seven 
squalling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, and Cocky Locky, I 
must run away from you too, Ducky Lucky," said the pancake, and with that 
it fell to rolling and rolling as fast as ever it could. When it had 
rolled a long, long time, it met a goose. 
 Good day, pancake," said the goose. 
 "Good day, Goosey Poosey," said the pancake. 
 "My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eat 
you," said the goose. 
 "When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and seven 
squalling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, and Cocky Locky, 
and Ducky Lucky, I must run away from you too, Goosey Poosey," said the 
pancake, and away it rolled. So when it had rolled a long, very long time, 
it met a gander. 
 Good day, pancake," said the gander. 
 "Good day, Gander Pander," said the pancake. 
 "My dear pancake, don't roll so fast, but wait a bit and let me eat 
you," said the gander. 
 "When I have run away from Goody Poody and the husband and seven 
squalling children, from Manny Panny, and Henny Penny, and Cocky Locky, 
and Ducky Lucky, and Goosey Poosey, I must run away from you too, Gander 
Pander," said the pancake, and rolled and rolled as fast as it could. When 
it had rolled on a long, long time, it met a pig. 
 Good day, pancake," said the pig. 
 "Good day, Piggy Wiggy," said the pancake, and began to roll on faster 
than ever. 
 Nay, wait a bit," said the pig, "you needn't be in such a hurry-scurry; 
we two can walk quietly together and keep each other company through the 
wood, because they say it isn't very safe there." 
 The pancake thought there might be something in that, and so they 
walked together through the wood; but when they had gone some distance, 
they came to a brook. 
 The pig was so fat it wasn't much trouble for him to swim across, but 
the pancake couldn't get over. 
 "Sit on my snout," said the pig, "and I will ferry you over." 
 The pancake did so. 
 "Ouf, ouf," grunted the pig, and swallowed the pancake in one gulp, and 
as the pancake couldn't get any farther -- well, you see we can't go on 
with this story any farther, either.