A Turk and his wife halted in the shadow of a tree. The Turk went to 
the river to water his horse, and his wife remained 
to await his return. Just then an  Era  [peasant] passed by and saluted the 
Turkish woman, "Allah help you, noble lady!" 
 "May God aid you," she returned. "Where are you coming from?" 
 "I come from the other world, noble lady." 
 "As you have been in the other world, have you not, perchance, seen 
there my son Mouyo, who died a few months ago?" 
 "Oh, how could I help seeing him? He is my immediate neighbor." 
 "Happy me! How is he, then?" 
 "He is well, may God be praised! But he could stand just a little more 
tobacco and some more pocket money to pay for black coffee." 
 "Are you going back again? And if so, would you be so kind as to 
deliver to him this purse with his parent's greetings?" 
 The  Era  took the money, protesting that he would be only too glad to 
convey so pleasant a surprise to the youth, and 
hurried away. Soon the Turk came back, and his wife told him what had 
transpired. He perceived at once that she had been 
victimized and without stopping to reproach her, he mounted his horse and 
galloped after the  Era , who, observing the 
pursuit, and guessing at once that the horseman was the husband of the 
credulous woman, made all the speed that he could. 
 There was a mill nearby, and making for it, the  Era  rushed in and 
addressed the miller with, "For Goodness' sake, 
brother, fly! There is a Turkish horseman coming with drawn sword. He will 
kill you. I heard him say so and have hurried to 
warn you in time."   
The miller had no time to ask for particulars. He knew 
how cruel the Turks were, and without a word he 
dashed out of the mill and fled up the adjacent rocks. 
 Meantime the  Era  placed the miller's hat upon his own head and 
sprinkled flour copiously over his clothes, that he might 
look like a miller. No sooner was this done than the Turk came up. 
Alighting from his horse, he rushed into the mill and 
hurriedly asked the  Era  where he had hidden the thief. The  Era  pointed 
indifferently to the fleeing miller on the rock, 
whereupon the Turk requested him to take care of his horse while he ran 
and caught the swindler. When the Turk had gone 
some distance up the hill, our  Era  brushed his clothes, swiftly mounted 
the horse, and galloped away.   
The Turk caught the real miller, and demanded, 
"Where is the money you took from my wife, swindler?" 
 The poor miller made the sign of the cross and said, "God forbid! I 
never saw your noble lady, still less did I take her money." 
 After about half an hour of futile discussion, the Turk was convinced 
of the miller's innocence, and returned to where he 
had left his horse. But lo! There was no sign of a horse! He walked sadly 
back to his wife, and she, seeing that her husband 
had no horse, asked in surprise, "Where did you go, and what became of 
your horse?" 
 The Turk replied, "You sent money to our darling son; so I thought I 
had better send him the horse that he need not go on foot in the other 
world!"