A sexton, one day in sweeping the church, found a piece of money (it
was a fifth of a cent) and deliberated with himself as to what he would
buy with it. If he bought nuts or almonds, he was afraid of the mice; so
at last he bought some roasted peas, and ate all but the last pea.  
 This he took to a bakery nearby, and asked the mistress to keep it for
him. She told him to leave it on a bench, and she would take care of it.
When she went to get it, she found that the cock had eaten it. The next
day the sexton came for the roast pea, and when he heard what had become
of it, he said they must either return the roast pea or give him the
cock. 
 This they did, and the sexton, not having anyplace to keep it, took it
to a miller's wife, who promised to keep it for him. Now she had a pig,
which managed to kill the cock. The next day the sexton came for the cock,
and on finding it dead, demanded the pig, and the woman had to give it to
him.  
 The pig he left with a friend of his, a pastry cook, whose daughter was
to be married the next day. The woman was mean and sly, and killed the pig
for her daughter's wedding, meaning to tell the sexton that the pig had
run away. The sexton, however, when he heard it, made a great fuss, and
declared that she must give him back his pig or her daughter. At last she
had to give him her daughter, whom he put in a bag and carried away.  
 He took the bag to a woman who kept a shop, and asked her to keep for
him this bag, which he said contained bran. The woman by chance kept
chickens, and she thought she would take some of the sexton's bran and
feed them. When she opened the bag she found the young girl, who told her
how she came there. The woman took her out of the sack, and put in her
stead a dog.  
 The next day the sexton came for his bag, and putting it on his
shoulder, started for the seashore, intending to throw the young girl in
the sea. When he reached the shore, he opened the bag, and the furious dog
flew out and bit his nose. 
 The sexton was in great agony, and cried out, while the blood ran down
his face in torrents, "Dog, dog, give me a hair to put in my nose, and
heal the bite." 
 The dog answered, "Do you want a hair? Give me some bread." 
 The sexton ran to a bakery, and said to the baker, "Baker, give me some
bread to give the dog. The dog will give a hair. The hair I will put in my
nose, and cure the bite." 
 The baker said, "Do you want bread? Give me some wood." 
 The sexton ran to the woodman. "Woodman, give me wood to give the
baker. The baker will give me bread. The bread I will give to the dog. The
dog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal the
bite." 
 The woodman said, "Do you want wood? Give me a mattock." 
 The sexton ran to a smith. "Smith, give me a mattock to give the
woodman. The woodman will give me wood. I will carry the wood to the
baker. The baker will give me bread. I will give the bread to the dog. The
dog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal the
bite." 
 The smith said, "Do you want a mattock? Give me some coals." 
 The sexton ran to the collier. "Collier, give me some coals to give the
smith. The smith will give me a mattock. The mattock I will give the
woodman. The woodman will give me some wood. The wood I will give the
baker. The baker will give me bread. The bread I will give the dog. The
dog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal the
bite." 
 "Do you want coals? Give me a cart." 
 The sexton ran to the wagon maker. "Wagon maker, give me a cart to give
the collier. The collier will give me some coals. The coals I will carry
to the smith. The smith will give me a mattock. The mattock I will give
the woodman. The woodman will give me some wood. The wood I will give the
baker. The baker will give me bread. The bread I will give to the dog. The
dog will give me a hair. The hair I will put in my nose, and heal the
bite." 
 The wagon maker, seeing the sexton's great lamentation, is moved to
compassion, and gives him the cart. The sexton, well pleased, takes the
cart and goes away to the collier. The collier gives him the coals. The
coals he takes to the smith. The smith gives him the mattock. The mattock
he takes to the woodman. The woodman gives him wood. The wood he carries
to the baker. The baker gives him bread. The bread he carries to the dog.
The dog gives him a hair. The hair he puts in his nose, and heals the
bite.