An honest sculptor and his beautiful wife lived in a renowned city with
a great cathedral. His work was always in demand, because there were many
convents, monasteries, and churches in the city. The sculptor and his wife
would have been ever so happy, but for one problem. Her exquisite beauty
caught the eye of many men, some of whom became increasingly bold in their
attempts to gain her favor. Three men in particular -- a bishop, a priest,
and a sexton -- were so open and so forceful in their solicitations that
life became quite unbearable for the sculptor and his faithful wife. The
sculptor, you see, feared that if any one of these three influential men
would turn against him it could ruin his thriving trade. And his wife, an
honorable and pious woman, was quite naturally offended by their
overtures. 
 Finally the husband and wife devised a plan that would, they hoped, put
an end to the unseemly advances and propositions. 
 The next time that the bishop approached the sculptor's wife, instead
of giving her usual cool reply, she responded warmly, "Yes, it would be
good if we could get to know one another better. My husband will be out
this afternoon. Why don't you come by at three o'clock for tea?" The
bishop, who could scarcely hide his eagerness and joy, accepted the
invitation and left. 
 Then came the priest, and he too was delighted when his solicitation
received an unexpectedly warm response. He too received an invitation for
tea, but he was to come at half past three. The sexton came last, and he
too was invited, but for four o'clock. 
 Three o'clock arrived and the bishop, true to his word, was as punctual
as a church bell. "You must be very uncomfortable in that heavy, scratchy
robe," purred the sculptor's wife, as they drank their tea. "Do make
yourself at ease." He needed no further encouragement, and began to take
off his clothes. Just as the last item fell, there came a knock at the
door. 
 "Heaven help us!" cried the woman. "It's my husband! Quick, hide in the
closet." The bishop, naked as a fish, fled to the closet. 
 The woman regained her composure and went to the door. It was, of
course, the priest, as punctual as a church bell. A half hour later he
too, having been encouraged by the sculptor's wife, had removed his
clothes, just in time to hear a knock at the door. The previous scene
repeated itself, and within seconds the naked priest had joined the naked
bishop in the closet. 
 The sexton did not fare any better. He too, in grand anticipation, took
off his clothes, only to be interrupted by a knock at the door. And he
joined his two naked brethren in the closet. 
 This time it was indeed the husband returning home, and he had with him
three nuns, worthy sisters from a nearby convent who had ordered statues
of the three wise men for their sanctuary. 
 "I have just what you want," said the sculptor, leading the nuns to the
closet holding the three entrapped suitors. "These will fit perfectly in
the sanctuary," he added, opening the door with a flourish. 
 The three suitors stood breathless, as if made from stone as the nuns
came closer to examine the workmanship. 
 First there was only silence, but then the senior sister said,
hesitatingly, "Well, uh, we did have a somewhat different style in mind,
perhaps something with a little less detail." 
 "No problem!" exclaimed the sculptor. I can remove the excess details
at once!" He approached the three suitors, hammer in one hand, chisel in
the other. And behold, the three statues suddenly came to life, bolted
through the room, and disappeared out the door. 
 The three nuns returned to their convent without any statues. The good
sisters there still give witness to the legend of the three stone saints
that miraculously came to life.