Folk Tales and Fairy Lore in Gaelic and 
English 
In Corrie Osben lived a shepherd's wife, whose child grew very peevish 
and difficult to nurse.  Neither she nor her husband knew what was the 
matter with the child, or what was to be done with him, until the tailor 
came to make clothes of a web of homemade cloth newly come from the 
walking-mill.  Next day after his arrival, the shepherd's wife went to 
the peat-moss, and left the child under his care till she should return.
 
Shortly after she went away, what did the tailor hear behind him but the 
sweet music of the bagpipes.  He looked the way whence the music came, 
and whom did he see sitting in the bed but a little old grey-headed man 
with a pipe of straw in his mouth, busy playing a tune, to which the 
following verses are sung:
  
 
Hush! Oranan, Hush! Oranan,  
Hush! Oranan, Hush! Oheé!  
Long is the lassie of coming  
To give the Cannan a wee.  
Hush! Oranan, etc.
 
He kept playing this tune until he heard the woman coming; then the music 
ceased, and he was again a little child.
  
The tailor told the woman nothing of what he had seen and heard while she 
was absent.  Next day, when she went a second time to the peat-moss, he 
took an egg, emptied the shell of its contents, filled it with water, and 
placed it near the fire.  The little old mannie's curiosity was so much 
excited by what he saw that he turned round and said:  "What are you 
going to do with that, tailor?"
 "I am going to heat water to steep malt in," said the tailor.
 
"Well, I am more than a hundred years old, and never till now did I see 
an eggshell used to heat water for steeping malt in," said the little 
man, as he turned away and began again to play on his straw-pipe.  He 
kept playing the tune of the day before until he heard the woman coming, 
and then he once more became a little child.
  
On the third day, the tailor told the woman what he had witnessed, and 
his opinion that the child was nothing but a fairy.  "And what am I to do 
with him?" asked the woman.
 
"Take him," said the tailor, "to the neighbouring ravine, and throw him 
over the bank into the water below."  The woman did as she was told, but 
no sooner had the child touched the water than he became a little grey 
manikin.  He then rose to his feet in a great rage, and scrambled up the 
steep side of the ravine, threatening the woman with vengeance if he 
overtook her.  But she took to her heels as fast as she could, and never 
looked behind her until she arrived at the house, where she found her own 
child laid at the door before her.