1. 
A man by the name of Klaus Fink from Tensbüttel one day rode his horse into one of the mountains named  Mannigfallige Bargen  or  Mannigfule Bargen  that stretch between Tensbüttel and Alversdorf. There the underground people were holding a cheerful feast, and they invited the peasant to participate. However, he stole a silver cup from them and hurriedly rode away with it.
  
When New Year's Eve arrived he took the cup from his trunk in order to drink from it. Suddenly the cattle in the barn began to cry terribly. Everyone ran outside to see what was wrong, but they found nothing. When they came back inside they discovered that the underground people had taken back their property.  
From Rhode,  Antiquitäten-Remarques , p. 77.  
 
 2. 
Two small peasant boys were playing in the field one day at noon. While they were busily scraping the earth looking for colored or rounded stones, a cavern suddenly opened up before them.  
"Let's crawl inside," said the one.   
"No," said the other. "Underground people live in there for sure."  
"Then I want to go inside," said the first one, a daring boy. "Dwarfs sleep at noontime."  
Throwing himself to the ground, he crawled inside on all fours. There was indeed an entire little family of underground people there, sound asleep. They were lying near the walls on mats. The boy became afraid, and he was about to creep away when he saw a beautiful little cup sitting on a little round table. He picked it up and took it with him.  
When he arrived home his mother was very pleased with treasure that they had so easily gained. But the father scolded the boy, insisting most earnestly that he take it back to the place where he had found it.   
The boy set forth, but the little people, who had discovered their loss, in order to hide their dwelling had made all the surroundings look alike, so no trace could be seen of where they had been.   
Crying, the boy returned home with the cup.    
His father was an innkeeper, and a merchant had just arrived there. After examining the cup, he said, "This is of the finest gold. You are not going to be so stupid as to return it to the rabble. Why should something like this be under the earth!"   
"Na!" said the innkeeper. "It will be something else if they try to get it back!"   
Evening came, and a young man was returning late to the village from the field when the underground people surrounded him and told him to let it be known in the village that the following night whoever took the cup from them should place it on a certain boundary stake, where they could pick it up. If that did not happen the entire village would suffer, but if an honest person returned it, he and his property would receive special protection. 
When the innkeeper heard this he took his son by the hand and had him take the cup to the boundary stake.  
The boy never forgot this as long as he lived, and afterward he and his family always enjoyed good fortune.  
From O. St. of the Stapelholm Church.