Which Is the Most Delicate? 
 
Then the king went to the sissoo tree, put the goblin on his shoulder once 
more, and started toward the monk. And as he walked along, the goblin on 
his shoulder said, "O King, I will tell you a strange story to relieve 
your weariness. Listen."   
There once was a king in Ujjain, whose name was Virtue-Banner. He had 
three princesses as wives, and loved them dearly. One of them was named 
Crescent, the second Star, and the third Moon. While the king lived 
happily with his wives, he conquered all his enemies, and was content.   
One day at the time of the spring festival, the king went to the garden to 
play with his three wives. There he looked at the flower-laden vines with 
black rows of bees on them ; they seemed like the bow of the god of love, 
all ready for service. He heard the songs of nightingales in the trees; 
they sounded like commands of Love. And with his wives he drank wine which 
seemed like Love's very life blood.   
Then the king playfully pulled the hair of Queen Crescent, and a 
lotus-petal fell from her hair into her lap. And the queen was so delicate 
that it wounded her, and she screamed and fainted. And the king was 
distracted, but when servants sprinkled her with cool water and fanned 
her, she gradually recovered consciousness. And the king took her to the 
palace and waited upon his dear wife with a hundred remedies which the 
physicians brought.   
And when the king saw that she was made comfortable for the night, he went 
to the palace balcony with his second wife Star. Now while she slept on 
the king's breast, the moonbeams found their way through the window and 
fell upon her.   
And she awoke in a moment, and started up, crying, "I am burned!"   
Then the king awoke and anxiously asked what the matter was, and he saw 
great blisters on her body. When he asked her about it, Queen Star said, 
"The moonbeams that fell on me did it."   
And the king was distracted when he saw how she wept and suffered. He 
called the servants and they made a couch of moist lotus leaves, and 
dressed her wounds with damp sandal paste.   
At that moment the third queen, Moon, left her room to go to the king. And 
as she moved through the noiseless night, she clearly heard in a distant 
part of the palace the sound of pestles grinding grain. And she cried, 
"Oh, oh! It will kill me!"   
She wrung her hands and sat down in agony in the hall. But her servants 
returned and led her to her room, where she took to her bed and wept. And 
when the servants asked what the matter was, she tearfully showed her 
hands with bruises on them, like two lilies with black bees clinging to 
them. So they went and told the king. And he came in great distress, and 
asked his dear wife about it.   
She showed her hands and spoke, though she suffered, "My dear, when I 
heard the sound of the pestles, these bruises came."   
Then the king made them give her a cooling plaster of sandal paste and 
other things. And the king thought, "One of them was wounded by a falling 
lotus petal. The second was burned by the moonbeams. The third had her 
hands terribly bruised by the sound of pestles. I love them dearly, but 
alas! The very delicacy which is so great a virtue, is positively 
inconvenient."   
And he wandered about in the palace, and it seemed as if the night had 
three hundred hours. But in the morning the king and his skilful 
physicians took such measures that before long his wives were well and he 
was happy.   
When he had told this story, the goblin asked, "O King, which of them was 
the most delicate?"   
And the king said, "The one who was bruised by the mere sound of the 
pestles, when nothing touched her. The other two who were wounded or 
blistered by actual contact with lotus petals or moonbeams, are not equal 
to her."   
When the goblin heard this, he went back, and the king resolutely hastened 
to catch him again.