Once upon a time there was a king who had three daughters. Because they
were good and beautiful he loved them all sincerely. He did not know which
one he should appoint as queen.
 As his birthday approached he summoned his daughters and said to them,
"My dear children, I love all three of you sincerely, and for a long time
have not known which one of you I should name to be the heir to my throne.
But I have now decided that the one of you shall become queen who brings
to me a birthday present that is most necessary in human life. Go and make
your plans accordingly and with utmost diligence."
 The old king's birthday arrived, and the two oldest daughters brought
him presents that were very necessary, but at the same time extremely
expensive. However, the youngest daughter brought him nothing more than a
little pile of salt in a decorated container. When the king saw her
present he became very angry, and he drove his daughter out of the castle,
forbidding her ever again to let herself be seen by him.
 With deep sorrow the rejected daughter went out into the unknown world,
comforted only by her faith in her own good sense. After walking a good
while she came to an inn. There she found a female innkeeper who
thoroughly understood cooking. She entered an apprenticeship with her and
soon exceeded even the innkeeper in the art of cooking.
 News spread far and wide of the excellent cook in this inn, and
everyone who came this way and who still had a few kreuzers left in his
pocket stopped to be served a roast or something even more elegant.
 The king heard of the cook's reputation, and he hired her as court
cook. Now it came to pass that the oldest princess was getting married,
and the famous cook was assigned the preparation of the wedding feast,
with no expenses to be spared.
 Thus on the wedding day one elegant dish after the other was served
until the table almost cracked. Everything was excellently prepared, and
everyone praised the cook. Finally the king's favorite dish arrived.
Quickly taking a spoon he tasted it. "This has not been salted!" he cried
out angrily. "Have the cook brought before me!"
 They quickly ran for the cook, who entered the hall undaunted.
 "Why did you forget to salt my favorite dish, you careless girl?"
snapped the king at her.
 The cook answered, "You drove away your youngest daughter because she
thought that salt was so necessary. Perhaps you can now see that your
child was not so wrong."
 When the king heard these words he recognized his daughter, begged her
for forgiveness, asked her to be seated at his side, and accepted her once
again as his dear child. Then the wedding became doubly joyful.
 The king lived happily with his children for many years thereafter.