A certain man died and left three sons. One was altogether a fool,
another was fairly intelligent, and the third was rather clever. This
being so, it was of course difficult for them to live together. In
dividing the inheritance among them, the fool was cheated, and in regard
to the cattle he was thus duped: There were three entrances to the pen,
two open and one very narrow. The two clever brothers proposed to drive
the beasts out of all three at once; those that issued from the small gap
were to belong to the fool. In this way the latter's share was only one
young bull out of the whole flock. But to his feeble mind the division
seemed fair enough, so he contentedly drove his bull out into the forest,
and tied it with a stout rope to a young tree, whilst he himself wandered
aimlessly about. 
 Three days later, the fool went to see his beast. It had eaten and
drunk nothing, but had pulled the tree up by the roots, and laid bare a
jar full of old gold coins. The fool was delighted, and played with the
money for a time. Then he resolved to take the jar and present it to the
king. As he passed along the road, every wayfarer looked into the pot,
took out the gold in handfuls, and so that he should not notice their
thefts, filled it up with stones and blocks of wood. On reaching the
palace, the fool asked for an audience of the king, and it was granted. He
emptied out the contents of the jar at the feet of the king. When the
courtiers saw the wrath of the king, they took the fool away and beat him.
When he had recovered himself he asked why he had been thrashed. One of
the bystanders, for fun, cried to him, "You have been beaten because you
labor in vain." 
 The fool went his way, muttering the words, "You labor in vain." As he
passed a peasant who was reaping, he repeated his phrase again and again,
until the peasant grew angry, and thrashed him. The fool asked why he had
been beaten, and what he ought to have said.  
 "You ought to have said, 'God give you a good harvest!'" 
 The fool went on, saying "God give you a good harvest!" and met a
funeral. Again he was beaten, and again he asked what he should say.  
 They replied that he should have said, "Heaven rest your soul!" He then
came to a wedding, and saluted the newly married couple with this funereal
phrase.  
 Again he was beaten, and then told that he should say, "Be fruitful and
multiply!" 
 His next visit was to a monastery, and he accosted every monk with his
new salutation. They too gave him a thrashing, with such vigor that the
fool determined to have his revenge by stealing of the bells from their
belfry. So he hid himself until the monks had gone to rest, and then
carried off a bell of moderate size. 
 He went into the forest, climbed a tree, and hung the bell on the
branches, ringing it from time to time, partly to amuse himself and partly
to frighten away wild beasts. In the forest there was a gang of robbers,
who were assembled to share their booty, and had just ended a merry
banquet. Suddenly they heard the sound of the bell, and were much afraid.
They took counsel as to what was to be done, and most of them were for
flight, but the oldest of the band advised them to send a scout to see
what was wrong. The bravest among them was sent to get information, and
the rest remained as quiet as possible. 
 The brigand went on tiptoe through the bushes to the tree where the
fool was, and respectfully asked, "Who are you? If you are an angel sent
by God to punish our wickedness, pray spare us and we shall repent. If you
are a devil from hell, come and share with us." 
 The fool was not so stupid that he did not see he had to deal with
robbers, so he took out a knife, tolled the bell, and then said with a
grave air, "If you wish to know who I am, climb the tree and show me your
tongue, so that I may mark on it who I am and what I ask of you." 
 The robber obediently climbed the tree, and put out his tongue as far
as he could. The fool cut off his tongue, and kicked him to the ground.
The robber, mad with pain, and frightened by his sudden fall, ran off
howling. His comrades had come out to meet him, and when they saw the
plight he was in, they ran off in terror, leaving their wealth. Next
morning the fool found the booty, and without saying anything to anybody,
took it home and became much richer than his brothers. The fool built
three palaces: one for himself, one for me, and one for you. There is
merrymaking in the fool's palace. Come and be one of the guests!