There lived, many years ago, in the city of Azimgurh, in the northwest
of India, a Moslem priest, or "mullah," who, as is usual with that class,
added to his income by teaching the Mohammedan youths of the place. 
 By chance an old washerman, or "dhobi," and his wife, while traveling
homewards, came to the city and put up under a tree adjoining the mosque
where the priest lived, and tied their ass to the tree. The old couple
were rich, but were unfortunately childless. 
 Some time during the day of their arrival, they caught a glimpse of a
man who was gesticulating before the priest in a tone of violent
complaint, and they could not help hearing all that he said, "You are the
priest," he called out, "and I have paid you all the fees you asked, but
you have taught my son nothing at all, and every day he is either idling
or playing about in the dusty roads with other worthless urchins." 
 Upon this the priest became greatly enraged, and retorted, "Not taught
him anything! It is false. He has been educated like the rest."
 
 
 
 Yah Yah ka kulma partraya 
Gudhê sê admi bunaya. 
 
 
 

Which means, "I have taught him the creed of Yah Yah, or of the righteous
ones, and though he came to me an ass, I have made him into a man. You
ungrateful wretch! I will have nothing further to say to him, and you may
take him out of the school."
 Upon this the man left the priest and went away down the road. 
 The ignorant old washerman and his equally old and ignorant wife,
having been silent listeners of all this conversation, put their heads
together and began to talk of what they had heard. The washerman said to
his wife, "Did you not hear the priest say that he had changed an ass into
a man, and you know priests can do wonderful things! I am just thinking
that if he could work a change in our ass and make out of him a son for
us, what a blessing it would be! For we have only this one thing short of
being completely happy." 
 The old wife eagerly caught at the idea, and replied, "Yes! Allah has
given us much wealth, but what good will it be to us when we die.
Strangers will get it. But if we had a son, he would inherit it, and our
cup of joy on earth would be full to the brim. Let us go to the priest and
make a bargain with him, that the curse of having no son may no longer
rest upon us." 
 Whereupon they both sought an audience of the priest, and approaching
him, said, "Oh, sir! We are both very old, as you see, but we have plenty
of money. But, sir, saddest of all things to tell you is that we are
childless. Now, sir, we overheard you say that you had transformed an ass
into a man. We have an ass, but we have not a son. Would you be so good as
to change him for us, and we will give you any sum that you like to
name." 
 The priest was struck all of a heap with surprise and astonishment at
this preposterous request. He said nothing for some minutes, but simply
stared at the aged old couple while he collected his thoughts. "These
people must clearly have heard me speaking angrily to the father of the
worthless scholar, and have taken my words altogether in a literal sense.
But here is evidently a run of luck for me which must not be thrown
away." 
 Thus he soliloquized, and the old couplet fixed itself in his thoughts:
 
 
 
 Gân kê pooreh-get muth ki heenay 
Khuda tujhê deta-mai leta keunnahin. 
 
 
 These are rich in purse but weak in intellect; 
Allah gives you the chance, why should you not take it? 
 
 
 

Then after this little pause he turned to them and said, "I have been
considering what is best to be done for you. To comply with your request
is indeed a difficult task, though not impossible. If you will tie your
ass to that tree, and come to me a year hence, you shall have a son, for
it will take all that time to make so complete a transformation. Give me
now therefore one thousand rupees, and go back to your home, and be sure
you return to me punctually in a year's time."
 The old people were only too pleased to close with the priest, so they
paid him the money, tied the ass to the tree, wished him a hearty
farewell, and went on their journey homewards. 
 When a year had elapsed the old washerman and his wife, with their
hearts bounding with delight at the prospect of welcoming a son and heir,
started on their travels again to meet the priest, and in due time arrived
at the mosque. 
 "We have come, sir," they said, "according to promise, to claim our
son." 
 The priest replied, "You are indeed a couple of old fools. If you had
been true to your time and had come a week ago, you would have seen him.
But now, owing to his great learning, he as been appointed to the 'qazi'
(doctor of Mohammedan law) at Jaunpur." 
 The priest had hit upon this ruse, and had determined to play off a
joke on this qazi, of whom he was extremely jealous. 
 "But," replied the old couple, getting alarmed, "how is it possible
that he will recognize us unless you accompany us?" 
 "Don't distress yourselves. I cannot go, but if you will take this rope
with which you always tethered your ass, and the 'tobrâ' or nosebag
in which the ass had his grain, and go to Jaunpur, all your difficulties
will vanish. Time your arrival in the city on a Friday at the hour of
prayer in the mosque. You will see a large concourse of people being
addressed by your son, who was, you know, your ass. Put yourselves in a
position where the qazi can plainly see you, then keep shaking the rope
and the nosebag, and he will soon discover who you are, and come and claim
you as his father and mother." 
 So off they went to the city of Jaunpur, reached it on a Friday, and
went straight to the mosque, placed themselves in a conspicuous part of
the outer building within sight of the qazi, and began, with a vengeance,
to whisk before him the nosebag and the rope. 
 In a very short time the qazi noticed this strange proceeding, and sent
one of the congregation to find out the cause, but they told him to tell
the qazi that they had a profound secret which could only be told to the
qazi himself and to no other mortal. 
 The qazi, impelled by curiosity, asked permission of his audience for a
few moments of leave, and then taking the old couple aside, he begged of
them to tell him the reason of their strange behavior. 
 With bated breath, and with the deepest earnestness did the old
washerman and his wife pour into the qazi's ears the whole of the strange
story of his having once been their ass; how for years they had overloaded
him with kindness, and never spared the cudgel when he had been obstinate;
how they deeply regretted their conduct towards one now so exalted as they
saw their son to be; how, but for the wonderful power of the Priest of
Azimgurh such a blessing would never have come to them; and how their cup
of happiness was now complete. 
 The qazi at once took in the situation, and saw the plot that his arch
enemy had so cleverly planned against him. And being a wise man, he
thought to himself, "If I repudiate this absurd story, in the belief of
which these ignorant people have bound up their lives, it will be sure to
be published abroad, to my own annoyance, and from being respected I shall
be mocked and turned into ridicule, and in fact be the laughingstock of
the place. I am resolved what to do. I will quietly acquiesce in what they
say, and so get rid of them." 
 Turning to the old couple he said, "Yes, it is all too true, and from
henceforth your interests are my interests. Your good name is identical
with mine, and I will carry it on. But let me bind you by all that you
hold sacred that you never breathe a word of this marvelous change that
has taken place in my being and existence. If you never reveal this
secret, I will be a dutiful son to you all my life." 
 This the old washerman and his wife agreed to abide by in every iota,
only stipulating that when they died, which in the course of nature was
not far off, he would be present to see them interred according to
Mohammedan rites. This the qazi on his part faithfully promised to do, and
the old couple took their departure to their own home with every
expression of joy and delight, and left all their money to him when they
died.