At a long distant period there stood on the shore of a lake a vilva 
forest. In this forest dwelt six hares. Now a vilva tree in that forest 
fell into the lake, thereby producing a great noise. When the six hares 
heard this noise, they began, as they had but small bodies, to run away 
full of fear.   
The jackals saw them running, and asked, "O honored ones, wherefore do ye 
run?"   
The hares replied, "There was a great noise." Thereupon the jackals also 
took to flight.   
When the monkeys saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore 
do ye run?"   
The jackals replied, "There was a great noise." Thereupon the monkeys also 
took to flight.   
When the gazelles saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore 
do ye run?"   
The monkeys replied, "There was a great noise." Thereupon the gazelles 
also took to flight.   
When the boars saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore do 
ye run?"   
The gazelles replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the boars also took 
to flight.   
When the buffaloes saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore 
do ye run? "   
The boars replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the buffaloes also took 
to flight.   
When the rhinoceroses saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, 
wherefore do ye run?"   
The buffaloes replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the rhinoceroses 
also took to flight.   
When the elephants saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore 
do ye run?"   
The rhinoceroses replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the elephants 
also took to flight.   
When the bears saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore do 
ye run?"   
The elephants replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the bears also took 
to flight.   
When the hyenas saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore do 
ye run?"   
The bears replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the hyenas also took to 
flight.   
When the panthers saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore 
do ye run?"   
The hyenas replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the panthers also took 
to flight.   
When the tigers saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore do 
ye run?"   
The panthers replied, "There was a noise." Thereupon the tigers also took 
to flight.   
When the lions saw them running they asked, "O honored ones, wherefore do 
ye run?"   
The tigers replied, "There was a loud noise." Thereupon the lions also 
took to flight.   
At the foot of the mountain there dwelt a maned lion, which likewise 
seemed to wear a diadem. When it saw the lions running it asked, "O 
honored ones, wherefore do ye all run, although each of you is strong in 
claws and strong in teeth?"   
The lions replied, "There was a loud noise."   
"O honored ones, whence did the noise come?" it asked.   
"We do not know," they replied.   
Then said that lion, "O honored ones, do not run. Inquiry must be made as 
to where the noise came from."   
It asked the tigers, "Who told you about it?"   
The tigers replied, "The panthers."   
It asked the panthers, "Who was it told you?"   
The panthers replied, "The hyenas."   
It asked the hyenas, "Who was it told you?"   
The hyenas replied, "The bears."   
It asked the bears, "Who was it told you?"   
The bears replied, "The elephants."   
It asked the elephants, "Who was it told you ?"   
The elephants replied, "The rhinoceroses."   
It asked the rhinoceroses, "Who was it told you?"   
The rhinoceroses replied, "The buffaloes."   
It asked the buffaloes, "Who was it told you?"   
The buffaloes replied, "The boars."   
It asked the boars, "Who was it told you?"   
The boars replied, "The gazelles."   
It asked the gazelles, "Who was it told you?"   
The gazelles replied, "The monkeys."   
It asked the monkeys, "Who was it told you?"   
The monkeys replied, "The jackals."   
It asked the jackals, "Who was it told you?"   
The jackals replied, "The hares."   
It asked the hares, "Who was it told you?"   
The hares replied, "We saw the terrible thing with our own eyes. Come, we 
will show you whence the noise came." So they guided the lion, and showed 
it the vilva forest, saying, "That is where the noise came from."   
Inasmuch as the noise was caused by the fall of a vilva tree out of that 
forest into the lake, the lion said, "O honored ones, be not afraid, for 
that was only an empty sound."   
Consequently they were all tranquillized. And a deity uttered this verse, 
"Let not men believe in words. They ought to see everything for 
themselves. Observe how, through the fall of a vilva, the forest lost its 
beasts."