There was once a very worthy king, whose daughter was the greatest beauty 
that could be seen far or near, but she was as proud as Lucifer, and no 
king or prince would she agree to marry. Her father was tired out at last, 
and invited every king and prince, and duke, and earl that he knew or 
didn't know to come to his court to give her one trial more. They all 
came, and next day after breakfast they stood in a row in the lawn, and 
the princess walked along in the front of them to make her choice. One was 
fat, and says she, "I won't have you, Beer-barrel!" One was tall and thin, 
and to him she said, "I won't have you, Ramrod!" To a white-faced man she 
said, "I won't have you, Pale Death!" and to a red-cheeked man she said, 
"I won't have you, Cockscomb!"   
She stopped a little before the last of all, for he was a fine man in face 
and form. She wanted to find some defect in him, but he had nothing 
remarkable but a ring of brown curling hair under his chin. She admired 
him a little, and then carried it off with, "I won't have you, Whiskers!" 
  
So all went away, and the king was so vexed he said to her, "Now to punish 
your  impedence , I'll give you to the first beggar man or singing 
 sthronshuch  [lazy thing] that calls." And, as sure as the 
hearth-money, a fellow all over rags, and hair that came to his shoulders, 
and a bushy red beard all over his face, came next morning, and began to 
sing before the parlor window.   
When the song was over, the hall door was opened, the singer asked in, the 
priest brought, and the princess married to Beardy. She roared and she 
bawled, but her father didn't mind her. "There," says he to the 
bridegroom," is five guineas for you. Take your wife out of my sight, and 
never let me lay eyes on you or her again."   
Off he led her, and dismal enough she was. The only thing that gave her 
relief was the tones of her husband's voice and his genteel manners.   
"Whose wood is this?" said she, as they were going through one.   
"It belongs to the king you called Whiskers yesterday." He gave her the 
same answer about meadows and cornfields, and at last a fine city.   
"Ah, what a fool I was!" said she to herself. "He was a fine man, and I 
might have him for a husband." At last they were coming up to a poor 
cabin. "Why are you bringing me here?" says the poor lady.   
"This was my house," said he, "and now it's yours." She began to cry, but 
she was tired and hungry, and went in with him. Ovoch! There was neither a 
table laid out, nor a fire burning, and she was obliged to help her 
husband to light it, and boil their dinner, and clean up the place after; 
and next day he made her put on a stuff gown and a cotton handkerchief. 
When she had her house redded up, and no business to keep her employed, he 
brought home  sallies  [willows], peeled them, and showed her how to 
make baskets. But the hard twigs bruised her delicate fingers, and she 
began to cry. Well, then he asked her to mend their clothes, but the 
needle drew blood from her fingers, and she cried again.   
He couldn't bear to see her tears, so he bought a creel of earthenware, 
and sent her to the market to sell them. This was the hardest trial of 
all, but she looked so handsome and sorrowful, and had such a nice air 
about her, that all her pans, and jugs, and plates, and dishes were gone 
before noon, and the only mark of her old pride she showed was a slap she 
gave a buckeen across the face when he  axed  her to go in an' take 
share of a quart.   
Well, her husband was so glad, he sent her with another creel the next 
day; but faith! her luck was after deserting her. A drunken huntsman came 
up riding, and his beast got in among her ware, and made  brishe  
[broken pieces] of every mother's son of  'em. She went home cryin', and 
her husband wasn't at all pleased. "I see," said he, "you're not fit for 
business. Come along, I'll get you a kitchen maid's place in the palace. I 
know the cook."   
So the poor thing was obliged to stifle her pride once more. She was kept 
very busy, and the footman and the butler would be very impudent about 
looking for a kiss, but she let a screech out of her the first attempt was 
made, and the cook gave the fellow such a lambasting with the besom that 
he made no second offer. She went home to her husband every night, and she 
carried broken victuals wrapped in papers in her side pockets.   
A week after she got service there was great bustle in the kitchen. The 
king was going to be married, but no one knew who the bride was to be. 
Well, in the evening the cook filled the princess's pockets with cold meat 
and puddings, and, says she, "Before you go, let us have a look at the 
great doings in the big parlor." So they came near the door to get a peep, 
and who should come out but the king himself, as handsome as you please, 
and no other but King Whiskers himself.   
"Your handsome helper must pay for her peeping," said he to the cook, "and 
dance a jig with me." Whether she would or no, he held her hand and 
brought her into the parlor. The fiddlers struck up, and away went 
 him  with  her.  But they hadn't danced two steps when the meat 
and the  puddens  flew out of her pockets. Everyone roared out, and 
she flew to the door, crying piteously. But she was soon caught by the 
king, and taken into the back parlor. "Don't you know me, my darling?" 
said he. "I'm both King Whiskers, your husband the ballad singer, and the 
drunken huntsman. Your father knew me well enough when he gave you to me, 
and all was to drive your pride out of you."   
Well, she didn't know how she was with fright, and shame, and joy. Love 
was uppermost anyhow, for she laid her head on her husband's breast and 
cried like a child. The maids-of-honor soon had her away and dressed her 
as fine as hands and pins could do it; and there were her mother and 
father, too; and while the company were wondering what end of the handsome 
girl and the king, he and his queen, who they didn't know in her fine 
clothes, and the other king and queen, came in, and such rejoicings and 
fine doings as there was, none of us will ever see, any way.