Once upon a time there was a young man who was engaged to marry a
pretty girl. After a while the bridegroom-to-be became suspicious of his
fiancée and her mother. You see, they were both witches. 
 The day came when witches go the Brocken, and the two women climbed
into the hayloft, took a small glass, drank from it, and suddenly
disappeared. The bridegroom-to-be, who had sneaked after them and observed
them, was tempted to take a swallow from the glass. He picked it up and
sipped a little from it, and suddenly he was on the Brocken, where he saw
how his fiancée and her mother were carrying on with the witches,
who were dancing around the devil, who was standing in their midst. 
 After the dance was ended, the devil commanded everyone to take her
glass and drink, and immediately afterward they all flew off in the four
directions of the wind. The bridegroom-to-be, however, stood there all
soul alone on the Brocken, and freezing, for it was a cold night. He
hadn't brought a glass with him, so he had to return on foot. 
 After a long, difficult hike he finally came to his fiancée's.
However, she was very angry, and her mother scolded him as well, for
having drunk from the glass. Mother and daughter finally agreed to turn
the bridegroom-to-be into a donkey, and that is what happened. 
 The poor bridegroom-to-be was now a donkey, and he plodded unhappily
from one house to the next, crying a sad "ee-ah, ee-ah." A man felt sorry
for the donkey, took him into his stall, and gave him some hay. But
understandably the donkey did not want to eat, and was driven from the
stall with blows. 
 After wandering about for a long time, long-ears finally came back to
the house of his fiancée, the witch, and he cried out pitifully.
The fiancée saw her former bridegroom-to-be, standing there before
her door as a donkey with bowed head and ears hanging down.  
 She regretted what she had done and said to the donkey, "I will help
you, but you must do what I tell you. At a child's baptism, place yourself
before the church door and let the baptismal water be poured over your
back, and then you will be transformed back into a human." 
 The donkey followed his fiancée's advice. The next Sunday, a
child was baptized, and the donkey placed himself before the church door.
When the baptismal service was over, the sexton wanted to pour out the
baptismal water, but the donkey was standing in his way. 
 "Go on, you old donkey!" said the sexton, but the donkey did not yield.
Then the sexton became angry and poured the water over the animal's
back. 
 Now the donkey was redeemed and was transformed back into a man. He
hurried to his fiancee, married her, and lived happily with her from that
time forth.