One fine evening a young princess went into a wood, and sat down by the
side of a cool spring of water. She had a golden ball in her hand, which
was her favorite plaything, and she amused herself with tossing it into
the air and catching it again as it fell. After a time she threw it up so
high that when she stretched out her hand to catch it, the ball bounded
away and rolled along upon the ground, till at last it fell into the
spring. The princess looked into the spring after her ball; but it was
very deep, so deep that she could not see the bottom of it.
 Then she began to lament her loss, and said, "Alas! If I could only get
my ball again, I would give all my fine clothes and jewels, and everything
that I have in the world."
 Whilst she was speaking a frog put its head out of the water and said,
"Princess, why do you weep so bitterly?"
 "Alas! said she, "What can you do for me, you nasty frog? My golden
ball has fallen into the spring."
 The frog said, "I want not your pearls and jewels and fine clothes; but
if you will love me and let me live with you, and eat from your little
golden plate, and sleep upon your little bed, I will bring you your ball
again."
 "What nonsense," thought the princess, "This silly frog is talking! He
can never get out of the well. However, he may be able to get my ball for
me; and therefore I will promise him what he asks." So she said to the
frog, "Well, if you will bring me my ball, I promise to do all you
require."
 Then the frog put his head down, and dived deep under the water; and
after a little while he came up again with the ball in his mouth, and
threw it on the ground. As soon as the young princess saw her ball, she
ran to pick it up, and was so overjoyed to have it in her hand again, that
she never thought of the frog, but ran home with it as fast as she could.
 The frog called after her, "Stay, princess, and take me with you as you
promised." But she did not stop to hear a word.
 The next day, just as the princess had sat down to dinner, she heard a
strange noise, tap-tap, as if somebody was coming up the marble staircase.
And soon afterwards something knocked gently at the door, and said,
 Open the door, my princess dear, 
Open the door to thy true love here! 
And mind the words that thou and I said 
By the fountain cool in the greenwood shade. 
 Then the princess ran to the door and opened it, and there she saw the
frog, whom she had quite forgotten. She was terribly frightened, and
shutting the door as fast as she could, came back to her seat. The king,
her father, asked her what had frightened her.
 "There is a nasty frog," said she, "at the door, who lifted my ball out
of the spring this morning. I promised him that he should live with me
here, thinking that he could never get out of the spring; but there he is
at the door and wants to come in!"
 While she was speaking the frog knocked again at the door, and said,
 Open the door, my princess dear, 
Open the door to thy true love here! 
And mind the words that thou and I said 
By the fountain cool in the greenwood shade. 
 The king said to the young princess, "As you have made a promise, you
must keep it. So go and let him in."
 She did so, and the frog hopped into the room, and came up close to the
table. "Pray lift me upon a chair," said he to the princess, "and let me
sit next to you." As soon as she had done this, the frog said, "Put your
plate closer to me that I may eat out of it." This she did. And when he
had eaten as much as he could, he said, "Now I am tired. Carry me upstairs
and put me into your little bed."
 And the princess took him up in her hand and put him upon the pillow of
her own little bed, where he slept all night long. As soon as it was light
he jumped up, hopped downstairs, and went out of the house.
 "Now," thought the princess, "he is gone, and I shall be troubled with
him no more."
 But she was mistaken; for when night came again, she heard the same
tapping at the door, and when she opened it, the frog came in and slept
upon her pillow as before till the morning broke.
 And the third night he did the same; but when the princess awoke on the
following morning, she was astonished to see, instead of the frog, a
handsome prince gazing on her with the most beautiful eyes that ever were
seen, and standing at the head of her bed.
 He told her that he had been enchanted by a malicious fairy, who had
changed him into the form of a frog, in which he was fated to remain till
some princess should take him out of the spring and let him sleep upon her
bed for three nights. "You," said the prince, "have broken this cruel
charm, and now I have nothing to wish for but that you should go with me
into my father's kingdom, where I will marry you, and love you as long as
you live."
 The young princess, you may be sure, was not long in giving her
consent; and as they spoke a splendid carriage drove up with eight
beautiful horses decked with plumes of feathers and golden harness, and
behind rode the prince's servant, the faithful Henry, who had bewailed the
misfortune of his dear master so long and bitterly that his heart had well
nigh burst. Then all set out full of joy for the prince's kingdom, where
they arrived safely, and lived happily a great many years.