In the village of Hammer near Czernikowo many years ago there lived a
young married couple. The wife loved to eat liver and could not live if
she didn't eat a liver every day. One day she sent her husband once again
to town to fetch a liver. However, in Czernikowo the husband met a group
of young merrymakers and went with them to a tavern, where he drank away
all his money. 
 Sad, and without the liver, he made his way homeward. It was late. On
his way he had to go through a great forest. Here he met a hunter, who
asked him why he was so sad. The man told him everything, upon which the
hunter said, "In the middle of the forest there is a clearing with a
gallows, upon which a number of dead bodies are hanging. Take one of them
down, cut out his liver, and give it to your wife. Tell her it is beef
liver." 
 The man did just that. 
 When he arrived home his wife was at first angry because he had been
away so long, but she calmed down as soon as she saw the liver, and began
frying it. The man lay down and went to sleep. 
 Suddenly a white figure appeared at the window, and it cried into the
room, "Everyone is asleep. The dogs are keeping watch in the yard. And you
are standing there frying my liver." 
 The man was terrified, and in his fear he cried out to his wife that
she should come to bed. But the wife wanted first to dip a little piece of
bread into the gravy and taste it. 
 Meanwhile, the phantom, a white skeleton, had already entered the
house, always calling out the same words again and again. 
 The woman was not afraid, but asked the ghost, "Now, my little fellow,
what happened to your flesh?" 
 The ghost replied, "The ravens ate it, and the wind blew it away." 
 Then the woman asked, "Now, my little fellow, what happened to your
eyes and ears?" 
 And the ghost answered, "The ravens ate them, and the wind blew them
away." 
 The woman asked, "Now, my little fellow, what happened to your
liver?" 
 Then the ghost cried out, "You have it!" And with that he seized the
woman and strangled her to death.