In a small village near Kampen there lived a man and a woman with a few
children. They eked out a living by fishing, weaving, and poaching. 
 One evening the man was looking after his salmon weirs [enclosures
built in a stream for catching fish] and fox traps when he found a large
bag of money on the road. Instead of looking after his traps and weirs, he
returned home, wanting for once to give his Grete a pleasant surprise.
 
 But when he was almost home he reconsidered and said to himself, "If I
tell my wife about this, tomorrow the entire world will know. So he went
back and placed the bag of money behind a thick tree and looked into his
fox traps and weirs. A fox was sitting in one of them, and a salmon in the
other. He killed them both, then put the fox into the weir and the salmon
into the trap. Then he went back to his Grete, who was busy weaving. 
 "Oh, Grete!" he called out, "Do come with me. It is so dark that I lost
my way." 
 Grete did not think long about it and went with Peter. Their path led
them past the courthouse, where a light was still burning late, because
people were inside cleaning. 
 "Good gracious, Peter!" said Grete. "There is still a light on in the
courthouse, and so late in the evening." 
 "Yes," said Peter, "Tonight the gendarme is settling his account with
the devil." 
 "No! Peter! Is that true?" 
 "Of course," said Peter. "Didn't you know that the gendarme settles his
account with the devil once each year?" 
 "No, I really did not know that," said Grete. 
 Finally they came to the weir, where they found a fox, and a fat salmon
was caught in the fox trap. Then they turned toward home, but on the way
Peter said, "Grete, it is raining hard. Let's get under that tree a little
while." And the moment they sat down Grete found the large bag of
money. 
 "Peter," said Grete, "we had better go home as fast as possible, so no
one will notice, and we can't tell anyone about it either." 
 "No, not on our lives," said Peter. 
 But it wasn't long before Grete just had to tell her neighbor Trinchen.
She, for sure, would not tell a single soul. But Trinchen told Mariechen,
and Mariechen told Hannchen, and then the entire village knew about it. It
wasn't long before Peter and Grete were summoned to the courthouse to turn
in the money. 
 "We did not find any money," said Peter. 
 "But," said the mayor, "your wife says that you did." 
 "Yes, Lord Mayor," said Peter, "My wife does talk a lot, but she is not
all there upstairs." 
 "Is a monkey delousing me? Are you trying to have me declared insane?"
cried Grete. "I know exactly when it was. It was the night when the
gendarme was settling his account with the devil and when we caught a fox
in the weir and a salmon in the fox trap." 
 "So, Lord Mayor, what do you say to that?" said Peter. 
 "I hear you," said the mayor. "Just go back home."