Everyone in Cornwall knows the story of the Merry Maidens. It is said that 
long ago some twenty maidens, accompanied by two pipers, were dancing and 
making merry on a Sunday, and as punishment for this sacrilege the lot of 
them were turned to stone: the maidens were petrified in a perfect circle 
with the two pipers standing by themselves a little way off.    
Now I cannot believe this legend, because according to it the stone circle 
would come from Christian times, but it has to be much older. When 
I was a lad I heard another explanation for the stones. I cannot remember 
any of the details, but I am sure it was much closer to the truth. It has 
something to do with the ley lines that run through here. In fact, a ley 
line connects the Blind Fiddler standing stone just up the road from here 
with my garden. Tomorrow I'll demonstrate its energy for you with a 
dowsing rod.    
Yes, there is a story about the Blind Fiddler, but I don't remember it 
either. However, I do know a story about the Merry Maidens, and it is a 
true story.    
In 1907 an  emmet  (that's a Cornish word for outsider) from England 
bought the farm where the Merry Maidens stone circle stands. Thinking that 
the stones lessened the value of the field, the new owner ordered one of 
his workers to pull them down and add them to the stone walls surrounding the 
meadow.    
The worker, a Cornishman, protested, but the Englishman insisted: "This is 
my field, and I'll do with it what I please, and you'll do as I say!"    
Next day the Cornishman hitched up three shire horses to a chain and began 
the task. (You know shire horses, don't you? They're big one-ton draft 
horses.) 
Anyway, while pulling over the first stone the lead horse panicked, reared 
up, then fell over dead.    
Reporting this to his master, the Cornishman asked if he should fetch 
another horse for the task.    
"No," said the landowner. "Set the stone back upright. We'll pull the lot 
of them down later."    
But the stone circle was left undisturbed, and remains so to this day.