Once upon a time a king went out hunting, and after he had been hunting
in the forest for a long time without finding anything, he found himself
suddenly in an open plain, in which there was a huge lake, and in the
midst of the lake he saw there a bird swimming about, the like of which he
had never seen before. It was a swan.
 Drawing his bow, he wanted to shoot it. To his surprise it spoke to him
in a human voice, and said, "Do not kill me."
 So he tried his best to catch it, and succeeded. Pleased with the
capture of the bird, he carried it home alive, and gave it to the cook to
kill it to make a meal of it for him. The cook was a Gypsy. She whetted
her knife and went to the bird to cut its throat, when, to her
astonishment, the bird turned three somersaults, and there stood before
her a most beautiful maiden, more beautiful than she had ever seen before.
So she ran to the king and told him what had happened.
 The king, who first thought that the cook was trying to play some
trickery with him, did not listen to her, but when she persisted in her
tale, the king, driven by curiosity, went into the kitchen, and there he
saw a girl more beautiful than any that he had ever yet set his eyes upon.
 He asked her who she was, and she said she was the swan who was
swimming on the lake, that she had willfully gone away from her mother,
who lived in the land of fairies, and that she had left two sisters
behind. So the king took her into the palace and married her. The Gypsy,
who was a pretty wench, had thought that the king would marry her, and
when she saw what had happened, she was very angry. But she managed to
conceal her anger, and tried to be kind to the new queen, biding her time
all the while.
 The king and queen lived on for a while in complete happiness, and
after a time a child was born unto her.
 It so happened that the king had to go on a long journey, leaving the
wife and child in the care of the Gypsy. One day the Gypsy came to the
queen, and said to her, "Why do you always sit in the palace? Come, let us
walk a little in the garden, to hear the birds singing, and to see the
beautiful flowers."
 The queen, who had no suspicion, took the advice of the Gypsy, and went
with her for a walk into the garden. In the middle of the garden there was
a deep well, and the Gypsy said artfully to the young queen, "Just bend
over the well, and look into the water below, and see whether your face
has remained so beautiful as it was on the first day when you turned into
a maiden from being a swan."
 The queen bent over the well to look down into the depths, and that was
what the Gypsy was waiting for, for no sooner did the queen bend over the
well, than, getting hold of her by her legs, she threw her down head
foremost into the well and drowned her.
 When the king came home and did not find the queen, he asked what had
happened, and where she was. The Gypsy, who had meanwhile taken charge of
the child, and looked after it very carefully, said to the king that the
young queen, pining for her old home, had turned again into a swan and
flown away.
 The king was deeply grieved when he heard this, but believing what the
Gypsy had told him, he thought that nothing could be done, and resigned
himself to the loss of his wife.
 They Gypsy woman looked after the child with great care, hoping thereby
that she might win the king's love, and that he would marry her. A month,
a year passed, and nothing was heard of the wife. And the king, seeing the
apparent affection of the Gypsy for the child, decided at last to marry
her, and fixed the day of the wedding.
 Out of the fountain into which the queen had been thrown, there grew a
willow tree with three branches, one stem in the middle and two branching
out right and left. Not far from the garden there lived a man who had a
large flock of sheep. One day he sent his boy to lead the sheep to the
field. On his way the boy passed the king's garden with the well in the
middle of it.
 As the boy had left his flute at home, when he saw the willow he
thought he would cut one of the branches and make a flute. Going into the
garden, he cut the middle stem, and made a flute of it. When he put it to
his lips, the flute by itself began to play as follows, "O boy, do not
blow too hard, for my heart is aching for my little babe which I left
behind in the cradle, and to suckle at the black breast of a Gypsy."
 When the boy heard what the flute was playing, not understanding what
it meant, he was greatly astonished, and ran home to tell his father what
had happened with the flute. The father, angry that he had left the sheep
alone, scolded him, and took away the flute. Then he tried to see whether
the boy had told the truth. As soon as he put it to his mouth the flute
started playing the same tune as when the boy had tried to play it. The
father said nothing, and wondering at the meaning of the words he hid the
flute away in a cupboard.
 When the king's wedding day drew near, all the musicians of the kingdom
were invited to come and play at the banquet. Some of them passed the old
man's house, and hearing from them that they were going to play at the
king's banquet, he remembered the marvelous flute, and asked whether he
could not go also, as he could play the flute so wonderfully well.
 His son -- the young boy -- had meanwhile gone into the garden in the
hope of getting another flute, as the willow had three branches. So he cut
one of the branches and made a flute of it. Now this flute did not play at
all.
 When the old man came to the palace, there was much rejoicing and
singing. At last his turn came to play. As soon as he put the flute to his
lips, the flute sang, "O man, do not blow so hard, for my heart aches for
my little babe left in the cradle to be suckled by a black Gypsy."
 The Gypsy, who was the king's bride and sat at the head of the table,
at once understood the saying of the flute, although she did not know what
the flute had to do with the queen whom she had killed.
 The king, who marveled greatly at the flute and at the tune which it
was singing, took a gold piece and gave it to the man for the flute, and
when he started blowing it, the flute began to sing, "O my dear husband,
do not blow so hard, for my heart aches for our little babe whom I left in
the cradle to be sucked by the black Gypsy. Quickly, quickly, do away with
this cruel Gypsy, as otherwise you will lose your wife."
 The guests who were present marveled at the song, and no one understood
its meaning. The Gypsy, however, who understood full well what it meant,
turning to the king, said, "Illustrious king, do not blow this flute and
make yourself ridiculous before your guests. Throw it into the fire."
 But the king, who felt offended by the words of the Gypsy, made her
take up the flute and blow. With great difficulty she submitted to the
order of the king, and she was quite justified in refusing to play it, for
no sooner had she put the flute to her lips when it sang, "You enemy of
mine, do not blow hard, for my heart aches for my little babe left in the
cradle to be suckled by you, you evil-minded Gypsy. You have thrown me
into the well, and there put an end to my life, but God had pity on me,
and he has preserved me to be again the true wife of this illustrious
king."
 Furious at these words, the Gypsy threw the flute away with so much
force that she thought it would break into thousands of splinters. But it
was not to be as she thought, for by this very throw the flute was changed
into a beautiful woman, more beautiful, indeed, than any had ever seen
before. She was the very queen whom the Gypsy had thrown into the well.
 When the king saw her, he embraced her and kissed her, and asked her
where she had been such a long time. She told him that she had slept at
the bottom of the well, into which she had been thrown by the Gypsy, who
had hoped to become the queen, and this would have come to pass had it not
been for the boy cutting a flute out of the stem of the willow tree. "And
now, punish the Gypsy as she deserves, otherwise your wife must leave
you."
 When the king heard these words, he called the boy and asked him
whether he had cut himself a flute from the stem of the willow tree which
had grown out of the well in the garden.
 "It is so, O illustrious king," said the boy, "and may I be forgiven
for the audacity of going into the king's garden. I went and cut for
myself a flute from the stem of the willow tree, and when I began to blow
it, it played, 'Do not blow so hard, O boy, for my heart is aching within
me,' etc." Then he told him he had gone back to his father, who instead of
praising him for the marvelous flute, gave him a good shaking. He had then
gone a second time into the garden, and had cut off one of the branches to
make a flute, but this did not play like the first one. The king gave the
boy a very rich gift, and he ordered the Gypsy to be killed.
 Some time afterwards, the queen came to the king and asked leave to go
to her mother to tell her all that had happened to her, and to say
good-bye for ever now, as she henceforth would live among human beings.
The king reluctantly gave way. She then made three somersaults, and again
became a swan, as she had been when the king found her for the first time
on the waters of the lake.
 Spreading her wings she flew far away until she reached the house of
her mother, who was quite alone. Her two sisters were not there. They had
left her some time ago and no one knew whither they had gone. The young
queen did not go into the house. She was probably afraid lest her mother
would not let her go back again, so she settled on the roof, and there she
sang, "Remain in health, good mother mine, as the joy is no longer granted
you to have me with you in your house, for you will only see me again when
I lose my kingdom, dear mother mine, not before, and not till then."
 And without waiting for the answer of her mother she returned back
again to her husband. Sitting on the window sill, she sang again, "Rise
up, O husband, open the doors, wake up the servants and let them be a
witness of my faithfulness to you, for since I have married you I have
left my mother, and my sisters have gone away from me, and from a swan I
have become a true wife to live in happiness with you. Henceforth I shall
no longer be a swan, but you must take care of me that I do not go hence
from you. I do not know whether my fate will be a better one by being a
queen in this world. O sweet water, how I long to bathe in you! And my
white feathers, they will belong to my sisters. Since I am to leave them
forever, and my mother with them, O Lord, what have I done? Shall I be
able to live upon the earth, and shall I keep the kingdom? Thou, O Lord, O
merciful, hearken unto me and grant that this kingdom may not be in vain."
And turning again head over heals, she became a woman as before, and
entering the palace she lived there with her husband -- the king -- and if
they have not died since, they are still alive.