Straw 
 
 There was once an old woman who had an only daughter. The lass was good
and amiable, and also extremely beautiful, but at the same time so
indolent that she would hardly turn her hand to any work. This was a cause
of great grief to the mother, who tried all sorts of ways to cure her
daughter of so lamentable a failing. But there was no help. The old woman
then thought no better plan could be devised than to set her daughter to
spin on the roof of their cottage, in order that all the world might be
witness of her sloth. But her plan brought her no nearer the mark. The
girl continued as useless as before. 
 One day, as the king's son was going to the chase, he rode by the
cottage where the old woman dwelt with her daughter. On seeing the fair
spinner on the roof, he stopped and inquired why she sat spinning in such
an unusual place. 
 The old woman answered, "Aye, she sits there to let all the world see
how clever she is. She is so clever that she can spin gold out of clay and
long straw." 
 At these words the prince was struck with wonder, for it never occurred
to him that the old woman was ironically alluding to her daughter's sloth.
He therefore said, "If what you say is true, that the young maiden can
spin gold from clay and long straw, she shall no longer sit there, but
shall accompany me to my palace and be my consort." 
 The daughter thereupon descended from the roof and accompanied the
prince to the royal residence, where, seated in her maiden-bower, she
received a pail full of clay and a bundle of straw, by way of trial,
whether she were so skillful as her mother had said. 
 The poor girl now found herself in a very uncomfortable state, knowing
but too well that she could not spin flax, much less gold. So, sitting in
her chamber, with her head resting on her hand, she wept bitterly. While
she was thus sitting, the door was opened, and in walked a very little old
man, who was both ugly and deformed. The old man greeted her in a friendly
tone, and asked why she sat so lonely and afflicted. 
 "I may well be sorrowful," answered the girl. "The king's son has
commanded me to spin gold from clay and long straw, and if it be not done
before tomorrow's dawn, my life is at stake." 
 The old man then said, "Fair maiden, weep not, I will help you. Here is
a pair of gloves. When you have then on you will be able to spin gold.
Tomorrow night I will return, when, if you have not found out my name, you
shall accompany me home and be my wife." 
 In her despair she agreed to the old man's condition, who then went his
way. The maiden now sat and span, and by dawn she had already spun up all
the clay and straw, which had become the finest gold it was possible to
see. 
 Great was the joy throughout the whole palace, that the king's son had
got a bride who was so skillful and, at the same time, so fair. But the
young maiden did nothing but weep, and the more the time advanced the more
she wept, for she thought of the frightful dwarf who was to come and fetch
her. When evening drew nigh, the king's son returned from the chase, and
went to converse with his bride. Observing that she appeared sorrowful, he
strove to divert her in all sorts of ways, and said he would tell her of a
curious adventure, provided only she would be cheerful. The girl entreated
him to let her hear it. 
 Then said the prince, "While rambling about in the forest today I
witness an odd sort of thing. I saw a very, very little old man dancing
round a juniper bush and singing a singular song." 
 "What did he sing?" asked the maiden inquisitively, for she felt sure
that the prince had met with the dwarf. 
 "He sang these words, answered the prince,
 
 
 
 I dag skall jag maltet mala, 
I morgon skall mitt bröllopp vara. 
Och jungfrun sitter i buren och gråter; 
Hon ver inte havad jag heter. 
Jag heter Titteli Ture. 
Jag heter Titteli Ture. 
 
 Today I the malt shall grind, 
Tomorrow my wedding shall be. 
And the maiden sits in her bower and weeps; 
She knows not what I am called. 
I am called Titteli Ture. 
I am called Titteli Ture. 
 
 
 
 Was not the maiden now glad? She begged the prince to tell her over and
over again what the dwarf had sung. He then repeated the wonderful song,
until she had imprinted the old man's name firmly in her memory. She then
conversed lovingly with her betrothed, and the prince could not
sufficiently praise his young bride's beauty and understanding. But he
wondered why she was so overjoyed, being like everyone else, ignorant of
the cause of her past sorrow. 
 When it was night, and the maiden was sitting alone in her chamber, the
door was opened, and the hideous dwarf again entered. On beholding him the
girl sprang up, and said, "Titteli Ture! Titteli Ture! Here are your
gloves." 
 When the dwarf heard his name pronounced, he was furiously angry, and
hastened away through the air, taking with him the whole roof of the
house. 
 The fair maiden now laughed to herself and was joyful beyond measure.
She then lay down to sleep, and slept till the sun shone. The following
day her marriage with the young prince was solemnized, and nothing more
was ever heard of Titteli Ture.