Once upon a time a town mouse met a country mouse on the outskirts of
a wood. The country mouse was sitting under a hazel thicket plucking
nuts. 
 "Busy harvesting, I see," said the town mouse. "Who would think of our
meeting in this out-of-the-way part of the world?" 
 "Just so," said the country mouse. 
 "You are gathering nuts for your winter store?" asked the town mouse? 
 "I am obliged to do so if we intend having anything to live upon during
the winter," said the country mouse. 
 "The husk is big and the nut full this year, enough to satisfy any
hungry body," said the town mouse. 
 "Yes, you are right there," said the country mouse. And then she
related how well she lived and how comfortable she was at home. 
 the town mouse maintained that she was the better off, but the country
mouse said that nowhere could one be so well off as in the woods and
hills. The town mouse, however, declared she was best off. And as they
could not agree on this point they promised to visit one another at
Christmas, then they could see for themselves which was really the most
comfortable. 
 The first visit was to be paid by the town mouse. 
 Now, although the country mouse had moved down form the mountains for
the winter, the road was long and tiring, and one had to travel up hill
and down dale. The snow lay thick and deep, so the town mouse found it
hard work to get on, and she became both tired and hungry before she
reached the end of her journey. 
 "How nice it will be to get some food," she thought. 
 The country mouse had scraped together the best she had. There were nut
kernels, polypoly and other sorts of roots, and many other good things
which grow in woods and fields. She kept it all in a hole far under the
ground, so the frost could not reach it, and close by was a running
spring, open all the winter, so she could drink as much water as she
liked. There was an abundance of all she had, and they ate both well and
heartily. But the town mouse thought it was very poor fare indeed. 
 "One can, of course, keep boy and soul together on this," said she,
"but I don't think much of it. Now you must be good enough to visit me and
taste what we have." 
 Yes, that she would, and before long she set out. The town mouse had
gathered together all the scraps from the Christmas fare which the woman
of the house had dropped on the floor during the holidays -- bits of
cheese, butter and tallow ends, cake crumbs, pastry, and many other good
things. In the dish under the ale tap she had drink enough. In fact, the
place was full of all kinds of dainties. 
 They ate and fared well. The country mouse seemed never to have had
enough. She had never tasted such delicacies. But then she became thirsty,
for she found the food both strong and rich, and now she wanted something
to drink. 
 "We haven't far to go for the beer we shall drink," said the town 
mouse, and jumped upon the edge of the dish and drank until she was no
longer thirsty. She did not drink too much, for she knew the Christmas
beer was strong. The country mouse, however, thought the beer a splendid
drink. She had never tasted anything but water, so she took one sip after
another, but as she could not stand strong drink she became tipsy before
she left the dish. 
 The drink got into her head and down into her toes, and she began
running and jumping about from one beer barrel to the other, and to dance
and tumble about on the shelves among the cups and mugs. She squeaked and
screeched as if she were both drunk and mad. About her being drunk there
was very little doubt. 
 "You must not carry on as if you had just come from the backwoods and
make such a row and noise," said the town mouse. "The master of the house
is a bailiff, and he is very strict indeed," she added. 
 The country mouse said she didn't care either for bailiffs or beggars.
But the cat sat at the top of the cellar steps, lying in wait, and heard
all the chatter and noise. When the woman of the house went down to draw
some beer and lifted the trapdoor, the cat slipped by into the cellar and
struck its claws into the county mouse. Then there was quite another sort
of dance. 
 The town mouse slid back into her hole and sat in safety looking on,
while the country mouse suddenly became sober, when she felt the claws of
the cat in her back. 
 "Oh, my dear bailiff, of dearest bailiff, be merciful and spare my
life, and I will tell you a fairy tale," she said. 
 "Well, go on," said the cat. 
 "Once upon a time there were two little mice," said the country mouse,
squeaking slowly and pitifully, for she wanted to make the story last as
long as she could. 
 "Then they were not lonely," said the cat dryly and curtly. 
 "And they had a steak which they were going to fry." 
 "Then they could not starve," said the cat. 
 "And they put it out on the roof to cool," said the country mouse. 
 "Then they did not burn themselves," said the cat. 
 "But there came a fox and a crow and ate it all up," said the country
mouse. 
 "Then I'll eat you," said the cat. 
 But just at that moment the woman shut the trapdoor with a slam, which
so startled the cat that she let ho her hold of the mouse. One bound and
the country mouse found herself in the hole with the town mouse. From
there a passage led out into the snow, and you may be sure the country
mouse did not wait long before she set out homeward. 
 "And this is what you call living well and being best off," she said to
the town mouse. "Heaven preserve me from having such a fine place and
such a master! Why I only just got away with my life!"