It was late fall, and people were in the mountains hunting. Six people
were living together: a man and his wife, his parents, and his two
sisters.
 One day when out hunting, the man came on a patch of lily roots. On his
return home he said to his wife, "I saw a fine patch of large lilies.
Tomorrow morning we shall move there and stay for a few days, so that you
can dig them."
 They set up a lodge near the place. And on the following morning early,
on his way to hunt, he showed his wife the place and left her there to
dig.
 In the afternoon a large grizzly bear appeared at the place. The woman
was intent on her work and did not notice the bear until he was close to
her. He said to her, "I want you to be my wife."
 She agreed, for she knew he would kill her if she refused. He took her
on his back and carried her to his house.
 Towards evening the hunter returned carrying a load of deer meat. His
wife was not there. He thought, "She is late and will come soon."
 He roasted meat for both of them. He ate, and then took his bow and
arrows and went in search of his wife. He saw where she had been digging
roots. He called, but received no answer. It grew dark, and he returned to
his camp. He could not sleep. At daybreak he went out again. He saw the
tracks of the grizzly bear going away, but no tracks of his wife leaving
the spot. He thought she might have gone to his parents' camp, or the bear
might have killed her, but he saw neither her tracks nor signs of a
struggle with the bear.
 He went to the camp. His father told him that she had not arrived. He
related what he had seen, and his father said, "The grizzly bear has not
killed her. He has married her."
 The man could neither sleep nor eat. At last the fourth night he slept,
for he was very tired.
 His wife appeared to him in a dream and said, "The grizzly has taken
me." She told him where the bear's house was. She said, "Every morning at
daybreak he takes me to dig roots at a certain place. If you are strong,
you can kill him; but he is very fierce and endowed with magic power. You
must fix your arrows as I direct you, and sit where I tell you. I have
prepared a hiding place for you, where you may sit on a boulder. Prepare
medicine to wash me with, for otherwise, when the bear dies, I shall die
too through his power. If he kills you, I shall kill myself. Get young
fir-tops and  konêlps  [ veratrum californicum , durand],
and soak them in water. With these you must rub me. Prepare one arrow by
rubbing it with fat of snakes, and the other arrow anoint with rattlesnake
poison. Sit down on the rock in the place that I have prepared; and on the
fourth morning, when I bring the bear past close to the rock, shoot him in
the throat."
 The hunter prepared everything as directed. He made two new arrows with
detachable foreshafts. He made them very carefully, and put good stone
heads on them. He searched for snakes, and anointed the foreshafts of his
arrows and the points. Early in the morning he was at the place indicated.
 The grizzly bear's house was a cave in a cliff, and at daybreak the man
saw the smoke from his fire coming out through a hole in the top of the
cliff. Soon he saw his wife and the bear emerge from the entrance. Her
face was painted, and she carried her root digger. She dug roots, and the
bear gathered them.
 The man returned home and told what he had seen to his father, who
said, "I have a strong guardian spirit, and I shall protect you. Do not be
afraid. Act according the directions your wife has given to you in your
dream, and kill the bear."
 On the fourth morning at daybreak he was sitting on the rock. His wife
and the bear drew near. She was digging in circles, and the grizzly bear
followed her. When she made the fourth circle, she passed quite close to
the rock.
 He aimed an arrow at his wife, and she cried, "Husbands never kill
their wives!" He lowered his bow and laughed.
 The bear stood up and was angry. He abused the woman, calling her bad
names. Just then he was close to the rock. The hunter spoke to him, and
the bear turned to look at the hunter, who shot him right in the throat.
The grizzly bear tried to pull out the arrow, but could remove only the
shaft. He rushed at the hunter, but could not reach him. The hunter shot
his second arrow with such great force that the shaft fell off. The bear
fell over and died.
 Then his wife swooned, and would have died through the bear's power,
had not her husband rubbed her with fir-tops and  veratrum .
 She revived and stood up. She said, "I warn you not to have connection
with me. The influence of the bear is still over me. Build a lodge of fir
brush for me some distance away from the people. Let your sisters feed me,
and wash me with fir and  veratrum  leaves. You may speak to me from
a distance. Next spring, when the snow is almost gone, I shall be your
wife again."
 In the spring she washed at a stream, using hot water, and her
sisters-in-law rubbed her with fir boughs. The hunter also washed. Then
she went into his lodge, and lived with him as before.