Now it is said that once upon a time there lived a king of Roccaspra,
who had a wife who for beauty, grace, and comeliness exceeded all other
women. Truly she was the mother of beauty, but this beautiful being, at
the full time of her life, fell from the steed of health, and broke the
threads of life. But before the candle of life was finally put out, she
called her husband, and said, "I know well, that you have loved me with
excessive love, therefore show me a proof of your love and give me a
promise that you will never marry, unless you meet one beautiful as I have
been; and if you will not so promise, I will leave you a curse, and I will
hate you even in the other world." 
 The king, who loved her above all things, hearing this her last will,
began to weep and lament, and for a while could not find a word to say;
but after his grief subsided, he replied, "If I ever think of taking a
wife, may the gout seize me, and may I become as gaunt as an asparagus; oh
my love, forget it. Do not believe in dreams, nor that I can ever put my
affection upon another woman. You will take with you all my joy and
desire." And while he was thus speaking, the poor lady, who was at her
last, turned up her eyes and stretched her feet.
 When the king saw that her soul had taken flight, his eyes became
fountains of tears, and he cried with loud cries, buffeted his face, and
wept, and wailed, so that all the courtiers ran to his side. He
continually called upon the name of that good soul and cursed his fate,
which had deprived him of her, and tore his hair, and pulled out his
beard, and accused the stars of having sent to him this great misfortune.
But he did as others do. A bump on the elbow and the loss of a wife cause
much pain, but it does not last. The one pain disappears at one's side,
and the other into the grave.
 Night had not yet come forth to look about the heavens for the bats,
when he began to make count on his fingers, saying "My wife is dead, and I
am a widower, and sad hearted without hope of any kind but my only
daughter, since she left me. Therefore it will be necessary to find
another wife that will bear me a son. But where can I find one? Where can
I meet a woman endowed with my wife's beauty, when all other females seem
witches in my sight? There is the rub! Where shall I find another like
unto her? Where am I to seek her with a bell, if nature formed Nardella
(may her soul rest in glory), and then broke the mould? Alas! in what
labyrinth am I! What a mistake was the promise I made her! But what? I
have not seen the wolf yet, but I am running away already. Let us seek,
let us see, and let us understand. Is it possible, that there is no other
donkey in the stable except for Nardella? Is it possible that the world
will be lost for me? Will there be such a plague that all women will be
destroyed and their seed lost?"
 And thus saying, he commanded the public crier to proclaim that all the
beautiful women in the world should come and undergo the comparison of
beauty, that he would take to wife the best looking of all, and make her
the queen of his realm. This news spread in all parts of the world, and
not one of the women in the whole universe failed to come and try this
venture. Not even flayed hags stayed behind, they came by the dozen,
because, when the point of beauty is touched, there is none who will
yield, there is no sea monster who will give herself up as hideous; each
and everyone boasts of uncommon beauty. 
 If a donkey speaks the truth, the mirror is blamed for not reflecting
the form as it is naturally; it is the fault of the quicksilver at the
back. And now the land was full of women, and the king ordered that they
should all stand in file, and he began to walk up and down, like a sultan
when he enters his harem, to choose the best Genoa stone to sharpen his
damascene blade. He came and went, up and down, like a monkey who is never
still, looking and staring at this one and that one. One had a crooked
brow, another a long nose, one a large mouth, and another thick lips. This
one was too tall and gaunt, that other was short and badly formed, this
one was too much dressed, another was too slightly robed. He disliked the
Spanish woman because of the hue of her skin; the Neapolitan was not to
his taste because of the way in which she walked; the German seemed to him
too cold and frozen; the French woman too light of brains; the Venetian a
spinning wheel full of flax. At last, for one reason or another, he sent
them all about their business with one hand in front and another behind.
 Seeing so many beautiful heads of celery turned to hard roots and
having resolved to marry nevertheless, he turned to his own daughter,
saying, "What am I seeking about these Marys of Ravenna, if my daughter
Preziosa is made from the same mould as her mother? I have this beautiful
face at home, and yet I should go to the end of the world seeking it?"
Thus he explained to his daughter his desire, and was severely reproved
and censured by her, as Heaven knows. The king was angry at her rejection,
and said to her, "Be quiet and hold your tongue. Make up your mind to tie
the matrimonial knot with me this very evening; otherwise when I finish
with you there will be nothing left but your ears."
 Preziosa, hearing this threat, retired to her room, and wept and
lamented her evil fate. And while she lay there in this plight, an old
woman, who used to bring her cosmetics, came to her, and finding her in
such a plight, looking like one more ready for the other world than for
this one, enquired the cause of her distress. When the old woman learned
what had happened, she said, "Be of good cheer, my daughter, and despair
not, for every evil has a remedy. Death alone has no cure. Now listen to
me: When your father comes to you this evening -- donkey that he is,
wanting to act the stallion -- put this piece of wood into your mouth, and
you will at once become a she-bear. Then you can make your escape, for he
will be afraid of you and let you go. Go straight to the forest, for it
was written in the book of fate, the day that you were born, that there
you should meet your fortune. When you want to turn back into a woman as
you are and will ever be, take the bit of wood out of your mouth, and you
will return to your pristine form." 
 Preziosa embraced and thanked the old woman, told the servants to give
her an apron full of flour and some slices of ham, and sent her away. When
the sun began to change her quarters like a bankrupt strumpet, the king
sent for his minister, and had him issue invitations to all the lords and
grandees to come to the marriage feast. They all crowded in. After
spending five or six hours in high revelry and unrestrained eating, the
king made his way to the bed chamber, and called to the bride to come and
fulfil his desire. But she put the bit of wood into her mouth, and
instantly took the shape of a fierce she-bear, and stood thus before him.
He, frightened at the sudden change, rolled himself up in the bedding, and
did not put forth a finger or an eye until morning.
 Meanwhile Preziosa made her way toward the forest, where the shadows
met concocting together how they could annoy the sun. There she lay in
good fellowship and at one with the other animals. When the day dawned, it
happened by chance that the son of the King of Acquacorrente should come
to that forest. He sighted the she-bear and was greatly frightened, but
the beast came forward, and wagging her tail, walked around him, and put
her head under his hand for him to caress her. He took heart at this
strange sight, smoothed its head as he would have done to a dog, and said
to it, "Lie down, down, quiet, quiet, there there, good beast." Seeing
that the beast was very tame, he took her home with him, commanding his
servants to put her in the garden by the side of the royal palace, and
there to attend to and feed her well, and treat her as they would his own
person, and to take her to a particular spot so that he might see her from
the windows of his palace whenever he had a mind to.
 Now it so happened that one day all his people were away on some
errand, and the prince being left alone, thought about the bear, and
looked out of the window to see her. However, at that very moment
Preziosa, believing she was utterly alone, had taken the bit of wood from
her mouth, and stood combing her golden hair. The prince was amazed at
this woman of great beauty, and he descended the stairs and ran to the
garden. But Preziosa, perceiving the ambush, at once put the bit of wood
into her mouth, and became a she-bear once more. The prince looked about,
but could not see what he had sighted from above, and not finding what he
came to seek, remained very disappointed, and was melancholy and sad
hearted, and in a few days became grievously ill. He kept repeating, "Oh
my bear, oh my bear." 
 His mother, hearing this continual cry, imagined that perhaps the bear
had bit him or done him some evil, and therefore ordered the servants to
kill her. But all the servants loved the beast because it was so very
tame, even the stones in the roadway could not help liking her, so they
had compassion and could not think of killing her. Therefore they led her
to the forest, and returning to the queen, told her that she was dead.
When this deed came to the prince's ears, he acted as a madman, and
leaving his bed, ill as he was, was about to make mincemeat of the
servants. They told him the truth of the affair. He mounted his steed and
searched backward and forward until at length he came to a cave and found
the bear.
 He carried her home with him and put her in a chamber, saying, "Oh you
beautiful morsel fit for kings, why do you hide your passing beauty in a
bear's hide? Oh light of love, why are you closed in such an hairy
lantern? Why have you acted this way toward me, is it so that you may see
me die a slow death? I am dying of despair, charmed by your beautiful
form, and you can see the witness of my words in my failing health and
sickening form. I am become skin and bone, and the fever burns my very
marrow, and consumes me with heart-sore pain. Therefore lift the veil from
that stinking hide, and let me behold once more your grace and beauty;
lift up the leaves from this basket's mouth, and let me take a view of the
splendid fruit within; lift the tapestry, and allow my eyes to feast upon
the luxury of your charms. Who has enclosed in a dreary prison such a
glorious work? Who has enclosed in a leather casket such a priceless
treasure? Let me behold your passing grace, and take in payment all my
desires. Oh my love, only this bear's grease can cure the nervous disease
of which I suffer." But perceiving that his words had no effect, and that
all was time lost, he took to his bed, and his illness increased daily,
until the doctors feared for his life. 
 The queen, his mother, who had no other love in the world, sat at his
bedside, and said to him, "Oh my son, where does your heartsickness come
from? What is the cause of all this sadness? You are young, you are rich,
you are beloved, you are great. What do you want, my son? Speak, for only
a shameful beggar carries an empty pocket. If you desire to take a wife,
choose, and I will command; take, and I will pay. Can you not see that
your sickness is my sickness and that your pulse beats in unison with my
heart? If you burn with fever in your blood, I burn with fever on the
brain. I have no other support for my old age but you. Therefore, my son,
be cheerful, and cheer my heart, and do not darken this realm, and raze to
the ground this house, and bereave your mother."
 The prince, hearing these words, said, "Nothing can cheer me, if I may
not see the bear; therefore, if you desire to see me in good health again,
let her stay in this room, and I do not wish that any other serve me, and
make my bed, and cook my meals, if it be not herself, and if what I desire
be done, I am sure that I shall be well in a few days." To the queen it
seemed folly for her son to ask that a bear should act as cook and
housemaid. She believed that the prince must be delirious; nevertheless,
to please his fancy, she went for the bear, and when the beast came to the
prince's bedside she lifted her paw and felt the invalid's pulse. The
queen smiled at the sight, thinking that by and by the bear would scratch
the prince's nose. But the prince spoke to the bear, and said, "Oh
mischievous mine, will you not cook for me, and feed me, and serve me?"
And the bear nodded yes with her head, showing that she would accept the
charge. Then the queen sent for some chickens, and had a fire lit in the
fireplace in the same chamber, and had a kettle with boiling water put on
the fire. The bear took hold of a chicken, scalded it, dexterously plucked
off its feathers, cleaned it, put half of it on the spit, and stewed the
other half. When it was ready, the prince, who could not before eat even
sugar, ate it all and licked his fingers. When he had ended his meal, the
bear brought him some drink, and handed it so gracefully that the queen
kissed her on the head. After this the prince arose, and went to the salon
to receive the doctors, and to be directed by their judgment. The bear at
once made the bed, ran to the garden and gathered a handful of roses and
orange blossoms, which she scattered upon the bed. She fulfilled her
various duties so well that the queen said to herself, "This bear is worth
a treasure, and my son is quite right in being fond of the beast."
 When the prince returned to his chambers, and saw how well the bear had
fulfilled her duties, it was like adding fuel to the fire. If he had been
consumed himself in a slow fire before, he was now burning with intense
heat. He said to the queen "Oh my lady mother, if I cannot give a kiss to
this bear, I shall give up the ghost." The queen, seeing her son nearly
fainting, said to the bear, "Kiss him, kiss him, oh my beautiful bear, do
not leave my poor son to die in despair." Then the bear obediently neared
the prince, who took her cheeks between his fingers, could not stop
kissing her on the lips.
 While thus engaged, I do not know how it happened, the bit of wood fell
from Preziosa's mouth, and she remained in the prince's embrace, the most
beautiful and ravishing being in the world. He strained her to his bosom
with tightly clasped arms, and said, "You are caught at last, and you
shall not escape so easily without a reason." Preziosa, reddening with the
lovely tint of modesty and of shame, the most beautiful of natural
beauties, answered, "I am in your hands. I surrender my honor to your
loyalty. Do with me what you will." The queen asked who this charming
woman was, and what had caused her to live such a wild life. She related
to them all her misfortunes, and the queen praised her as a good and
honored child, and said to her son that she was well satisfied that he
should marry the princess. The prince, who wanted nothing else, at once
announced his betrothal to her. Kneeling before the queen, they both
received her blessing, and with great feasting the marriage took place.
Thus Preziosa demonstrated the truth of the proverb: "Those who do good
may expect good in return."