In the town of Pavia in Lombardy there lived a worthy knight by the
name of January. Although throughout his long and prosperous life he had
partaken often
of the fruits of love, he felt no need for marriage until he passed his
sixtieth year, when suddenly he was overcome by a violent urge to become a
wedded man. 
 "A young and beautiful wife," he concluded, "would be the fulfillment
of my wealth and glory. Obedient, loyal, and untiring, she would attend to
my every need in my waning years, and further, she may well present me
with an heir."  
 "Not so!" argued some. "A wife's interest will be more toward your
fortune than toward your well being, and further, her unbridled passions
may place your honor at risk." 
 But January listened not to these negative voices, paying heed instead
to those who praised the virtues of womanhood and the benefits of
marriage. And thus he soon announced to his friends his resolve to find a
bride, "But," he asserted, "she must be under twenty years of age, for
young veal is tastier than old beef." 
 His friends tried to dissuade him from this resolve, but to no avail,
and at last -- driven onward by unrelenting fantasies -- he found the
woman who satisfied his dreams. Although not of high rank, she was young
and beautiful, and, in his love-blinded perception, she was also compliant
and self-disciplined. Further, like old January himself, she too bore the
name of a season: May. 
 Marriage documents were executed, the holy sacrament of marriage was
duly performed, and the priest united January and May as husband and
wife. 
 One wedding guest was particularly moved, a robust young man named
Damian, who served as a squire to Knight January. Ravished by May's fresh
beauty, the squire fell madly in love with his master's young bride. 
 No one knows what young May was thinking in her heart as old January --
with his beard of stubble and loose skin shaking about his throat --
labored in the field of love. But Damian's thoughts were not entirely
secret. He poured out his soul with pen and ink, then managed to slip the
letter into the hand of his beloved May without being seen by the
ever-watchful January. 
 May's only opportunity to read the letter came in that small place
where everyone goes alone. There she committed Damian's message to memory,
then tore the letter into pieces and threw them into the privy. But
one thing is certain. She took no offense at the young squire's
forwardness, for as soon as she could steal a few minutes' time, she
composed a letter to the young squire, promising him the satisfaction he
desired of her as soon as the time and place might present themselves. 
 In the meantime old January's fortune turned against him, and he lost
his sight. The curse of blindness increased the knight's possessiveness
and jealousy toward his young wife. Fearing that she might succumb to some
temptation under the cover of his darkness, he never let her go out unless
he himself had her by the hand. Nevertheless, by using private hand
signals and smuggled letters, she communicated her forbidden love to
Damian, and invented a plan whereby it might be consummated. 
 The tryst was to take place in a private garden where January and May
often walked together. Following his beloved's plan, Damian let himself
into the garden at the appointed time, then hid himself in the branches of
a pear tree that grew there. A little later January and May, hand in hand,
approached the tree, when May suddenly declared an intense appetite for a
pear from the nearby tree. 
 "Do let me climb the tree and pluck a pear," she begged of her husband.
Then recalling his blind jealousy, she added, "You can hold your arms
around the tree to make sure that I am alone." 
 Not wanting to deny her this innocent request, he stooped over and let
her step onto his back. Taking hold of a branch, she pulled herself into
tree and into the arms of the waiting Damian. Now ladies, please take no
offence, but I must tell the story as it actually happened. Damian
forthwith lifted her smock and thrust away, with the deceived husband
blindly hugging the tree beneath them. 
 However, this shameful tryst was not entirely unseen. The king and
queen of Fairyland saw all, and the king -- horrified at the cuckoldry --
resolved at once to restore the old knight's sight immediately and thus
expose his wife's and his squire's faithlessness. "Do that!" replied the
fairy king's wife. "But nothing bad will come to the young woman, for I
will give her a bold and quick answer that will excuse her and her lover
from all guilt." 
 And thus it happened. As granted by the fairy king, sight miraculously
returned to January's aging eyes. But his rejoicing was short lived, for
looking up, the first thing he saw was his wife engaged in an act that
polite words cannot describe. 
 "Strumpet!" he called out angrily. "What are you up to?" 
 Now it was the fairy queen's turn to ply her magic, and -- as promised
-- she put a quick response onto the wayward wife's tongue. 
 "Sir," replied May, "have patience. Don't you see what I have done? I
was told that the only cure for your blindness would be for me to struggle
with a man upon a tree." 
 "Struggle?" said he. "It went right in!" 
 "Oh no!" said she. "You caught a hazy glimpse, my good sir, but your
sight is still poor. Things are not as they first appeared to you." Then
she continued, "This slander is my reward for helping you to see." 
 "Never mind!" said he. "Come down. But it did appear to me that Damian
was enjoying you with your smock upon his breast." 
 "Think what you will," said she, "but it was only a false vision
following your long blindness." 
 With that she jumped down from the tree, and January led her happily
back home.