There are many curious and miraculously unusual happenings and things
in nature, of which no human understands how they occur or how they relate
to other things, but they exist nonetheless. And when people hear stories
about them, they are amazed and terrified, but they cannot comprehend
them. Thus it is with the Raven Stone, which many people talk about, but
no one knows anything about with certainty. But it is known for sure that
Raven Stones exist. 
 You have heard about Thieves' Lights. They are similar to the Raven
Stone and other invisible thieves' lanterns. It is gruesome to relate how
Thieves' Lights are obtained. They are the fingers of unborn, innocent
little children. For these purposes the fingers of already born and baptized children cannot be used. 
 And what sort of unborn little children are they? And how does one
obtain the lights? When a female thief or murderer hangs or drowns
herself, or is hanged or beheaded, and she is carrying a child inside her
body, then you must go forth at midnight on the devil's roads, not on
God's roads, with incantations and magic, not with prayer and blessings,
and you must take an axe or a knife that has been used by an executioner,
and with it you must open up the poor sinner's belly, take out the child,
cut off its fingers, and take them with you. 
 But this absolutely must all be done at midnight in the most perfect
solitude and silence. Not even the softest sound, no "oh" and no sigh can
escape the lips of the seeker. In this manner you obtain the lights, which
you can burn whenever you want to. And however short they are, they will
never burn up, but will always remain the same length. 
 These magic lights have the unusual nature and property that they
ignite whenever and wherever their thievish owner wants them to. And they
extinguish themselves as fast as his wish and thought. 
 With their help he can see everything, even in the densest and darkest
night, whenever and wherever he wants. But they shine only for him and for
no one else. He himself remains invisible, even though they illuminate
everything else. Further, the horror within them gives them a mysterious
power over sleep. In any room where they are lit a sleeper will snore so
soundly that one could set off ten thunderbolts over his head without
waking him. Just think how easy it is to steal things and carry them off
under these conditions!