Narrative 1 
 In former times thieves made lights for themselves which had the power
to keep the inhabitants of a house asleep as long as the lights were
burning. If the rogues knew how many people there were in the house that
they wanted to rob, then they would ignite that number of lights, and no
one would be able to wake up as long as the lights were burning. These
lights were made from unborn children which had been cut from the womb.
Therefore it occurred not infrequently that pregnant women were sold to
bandits for high prices. 
 That very thing happened once at a mill. A servant girl who was
pregnant worked for the miller. Her fiancé came to visit her one
night. He saw a wagon standing before the door of the miller's house. It
was covered with a tarp. He heard a stifled groaning sound coming from
beneath the tarp. The servant rushed to the living-room window, and inside
he saw several fellows with the miller. They were counting out a large
pile of silver coins onto the table. The servant immediately became
suspicious and rushed back to investigate the wagon. He pulled his own
fiancée from beneath the wagon tarp. Her mouth had been bound with
a cloth. The servant carried her to safety and then untied her hands and
feet. The robbers soon emerged from the house and drove off as fast as
their horses could run, thinking that they were carrying with them a rich
booty. 
 Narrative 2 
 Once a rogue slipped into a house during the day. The inhabitants of
the house saw him, but although they searched high and low, they could not
find him. At nightfall the inhabitants went to bed, but the servant girl
could not fall asleep. She was afraid of the stranger, and wanted to look
around carefully one last time. To her fright she discovered him hiding in
the stove.  
 The girl then pretended to fall asleep. Now that all was quiet in the
house, the rogue climbed out of the stove and ignited as many lights as
there were people in the house. But one of the lights would not burn. He
believed that the girl was not yet asleep and held a burning light against
her feet. However, in her fear she withstood the pain and did not
move. 
 Now satisfied, the rogue placed all the lights on the table and went
outside to summon his fellow robbers. The girl jumped up and barred the
door shut behind him. She attempted to awaken the people in the house, but
to no avail. She then tried to extinguish the lights, but failed to do
this as well. 
 The rogue came to the window and demanded his lights, promising to
leave once he had them. The servant girl answered that she could not reach
them out to him while there were burning. She said that she had been
unable to put them out and asked him what to do. He told her to submerge
them in fresh milk. That is exactly what she wanted to know. She submerged
them in fresh milk, and the lights went out. She shouted at the fellow
that he was not going to get his lights back, and he then did indeed have
to made a hasty retreat, for as soon as the lights were extinguished,
everyone in the house awoke, and they all came running to see what was the
matter.