A tailor had a son who was small, no bigger than a thumb. For that reason he was called Thumbling.  
He was, however, quite brave, and he said to his father, "Father, I want to and must go out into the world."  
"That's right, my son," said the old man. He took a long darning-needle and with a candle made a knob of sealing-wax on it. "Here is a sword to take with you on your way."  
The little tailor wanted to have one more meal with at home, so he hopped into the kitchen to see what his mother had cooked for the last time. The meal was ready to eat, and in a dish on the hearth.  
He said, " Mother, what is there to eat today?"  
"See for yourself," said his mother.  
So Thumbling jumped onto the hearth, and looked into the dish. However, he stretched his neck too far out, and the steam from the food caught hold of him and carried him up the chimney. He rode about on the steam for a while in the air, until at last he sank down to the ground again.  
The little tailor was now outside in the wide world. He traveled about, finally finding work with a master tailor. However, the food was not good enough for him.  
"Mistress," said Thumbling to the master's wife, "if you don't give me better food, I'll go away, and early tomorrow morning I'll write with chalk on your front door: 'Too much potatoes, too little meat! Good-bye, Potato-King.'"  
"Just what do you want, grasshopper?" said the master's wife. She grew angry, picked up a rag, and was about to hit him with it. However, my little tailor slipped nimbly under a thimble, peeked out from beneath it, and stuck his tongue out at the master's wife. She picked up the thimble and tried to get hold of him, but little Thumbling jumped into the rag. The master's wife untangled the rag, looking for him, but he escaped into a crack in the table.  
"Ho, ho, lady mistress," he shouted, sticking his head out. When she began to hit him, he jumped down into a drawer. But she finally caught hold of him and drove out of the house.  
The little tailor journeyed onward and came to a great forest where he happened onto a band of thieves. They were planning to steal the king's treasure. Seing the little tailor, they thought, "A little fellow like that can crawl through a keyhole be a picklock for us."  
"Hey there," cried one of them, "you giant Goliath, do you want to go to the treasure chamber with us? You can slip in and throw out the money."  
Thumbling reflected for a while, and finally said "yes." He then went the treasure chamber with them. He looked at the door from top to bottom to see if there was any crack in it. He soon found a crack wide enough to let him through. He was about slip in when one of the two guards standing there observed him.  
He and said to the other guard, "What kind of an ugly spider is that? I'll step on it and kill it."  
"Leave the poor creature alone," said the other. "It has never done you any harm."  
Thus Thumbling got safely through the crack and into the treasure chamber. He opened the window beneath which the thieves were standing, and threw one taler after another down to them. The little tailor was in the middle of his work when he heard the king coming to inspect his treasure chamber. He quickly hid himself.  The king noticed that several talers were missing, but he could not perceive who could have stolen them, for the locks and bolts were in good condition, and everything seemed to be well protected.  
He went away again, saying to the guards, "Be on the alert! Someone is after the money."  
When Thumbling resumed his work the guards heard the money being moved about with sound of clink, clank, clink, clank. They swiftly ran in to capture the thief, but the little tailor heard them coming and was swifter than they were. He jumped into a corner and covered himself with a taler, so that nothing could be seen of him. Then he began teasing the guards, crying out, "Here I am!"  
The guards ran toward him, but when they got there, he had already jumped into another corner under a taler, and was shouting, "Hey! I'm over here!"  
The guards hurred there, but Thumbling had long long since hidden himself in a third corner, and was shouting, "Hey! I'm over here!"  
Thus he made fools of them. He drove them to and fro about the treasure chamber so long that they grew tired and went away. Then one at a time he threw all the talers out. He tossed the last one with all his might, hopped nimbly onto it, and flew down with it through the window.  
The thieves praised him heartily. "You are a great hero," they said.  "Do you want to be our captain?"  
Thumbling thanked them, but said he wanted to see the world first. They divided the loot, but the little tailor asked for only one kreuzer because he could not carry any more.  
He buckled on his sword once again, said farewell to the robbers, and went on his way.  
At first he apprenticed himself to a few different masters, but did not like the work, so finally he hired himself out as a servant in an inn. However, the maids did not like him, for he saw all that they did secretly, without their seeing him. He he told their master and mistress what they had stolen off the plates and from the cellar, carrying it off for their own use.  
They said, "Just wait! We'll get even with you!"  
Together the plotted to play a trick on him. Soon afterwards one of the maids was cutting grass in the garden when she saw Thumbling jumping about and creeping up and down among the plants. She quickly gathered him up with the cut grass, tied it all in a large cloth, and secretly threw it to the cows. One of the cows was a large black one, who swallowed him down with the grass without hurting him. He did not like it down below, for it was quite dark, with not so much as a burning candle.  
When the cow was being milked he cried out:  
 
Strip, strap, strull.  
Will the bucket soon be full?  
 
The sound of milking kept him from being understood. Afterward the master of the house came into the cow-barn and said, "That cow there shall be slaughtered tomorrow."  
This so frightened Thumbling that he cried out in a clear voice, "First let me out! I'm here inside."  
The master heard that quite well, but he did not know where the voice came from. "Where are you?" he asked.  
"In the black one," answered Thumbling, but the master did not understand what that meant, and went away.  
The cow was slaughtered the next morning. Fortunately Thumbling escaped being hit as the meat was being sliced and chopped. But he ended up in the sausage meat.  
The butcher came in and began his work, and Thumbling cried out with all his might, "Don't chop too deep, don't chop too deep. I'm stuck inside here."  
No one heard him because of the noise of the chopping knife. Now poor Thumbling was in danger, but danger leads to speed, and he jumped about so quickly between the blows that none of them touched him, and he escaped unharmed. But he still could not get away. He had to let himself be pushed into a blood sausage with bits of fat. His quarters there were very tight, and furthermore he was hung up in the chimney to be smoked.  This was a terribly dreary and cramped situation.  
He was finally taken down in winter, because the blood sausage was to be served to a guest. When the hostess was cutting it into slices, he was careful not to stretch his head too far out, or it could have been cut off. He finally saw his opportunity, cleared a way for himself, and jumped out.  
The little tailor did not want to stay any longer in a house where he had been so badly treated, so once again he set forth on his travels.  
His feedom did not last long. In an open field he met up with a fox who, without thinking, snapped him up.  
"Hey there, Mr. Fox," cried the little tailor, "I'm stuck in your throat. Set me free again."  
"You're quite right," answered the fox. "You are nothing at all for me, but if you will promise me the chickens in your father's barnyard I'll let you go."  
"With all my heart," replied Thumbling. "I promise that you shall have all the chickens."  
Then the fox released Thumbling, and even carried him home. When the father saw his dear son once again, he gladly gave the fox all the chickens that he had.  
"For this I am bringing you a  goodly sum of money," said Thumbling, and gave his father the kreuzer that he had earned on his travels.  
 
"But why did the fox get the poor chickens to eat?"  
"Oh, you goose, your father would surely love his child more than the chickens in his barnyard!"