Cologne 
 
 Eulenspiegel journeyed to Cologne, where he stayed at an inn for two or
three days without letting anyone know who he was. During this time he
noticed that the innkeeper was a rogue, and he thought, "The guests will
not be well off where the innkeeper is a rogue. You should find another
place to stay." 
 That evening he told the innkeeper that he would be looking for another
place to stay. The latter showed the other guests to their beds, but not
Eulenspiegel, who then said, "Sir, I paid just as much for my lodging as
the others did, but you showed them to their beds. Am I supposed to sleep
here on this bench?" 
 The innkeeper said, "Look! Here is a pair of sheets!" and he let a
fart. Then he let another one and said, "Look! This is your pillow!" Then
for a third time he let one, until it stank, and he said, "Look! Now you
have an entire bed! Use them until morning, and then lay them in a pile
for me, so I can find everything together!" 
 Eulenspiegel said nothing, but thought, "Look! Take note that one rogue
deserves another rogue." And that night he slept on the bench. 
 Now the innkeeper had a nice folding table. Eulenspiegel opened up the
leaves, shit a large pile on the table, and then closed it up again. He
got up early in the morning, went to the innkeeper's room and said, "Sir,
I thank you for the night's lodging." Then letting a large fart, he said,
"Those are the feathers from your bed. I laid the pillow, the sheets, and
the covers all together in a pile." 
 The innkeeper said, "Sir, that is good. I will look after them as soon
as I get up." 
 Eulenspiegel said, "Do that! Just look around. You'll find them all
right!" And with that he left the inn. 
 The innkeeper expected many guests for the noon meal, and he said that
they should eat at the nice folding table. When he opened up the table, an
evil stink flew up his nose. Seeing the dung, he said, "He gives what was
earned. He paid for a fart with shit." 
 Then the innkeeper sent for Eulenspiegel, because he wanted to get to
know him better. Eulenspiegel did indeed come back, and he and the
innkeeper appreciated one another's tricks so much, that from this time
forth Eulenspiegel got a good bed.