A long time ago there lived a poor farmer and his wife. They had a little boy who was strong and healthy but who was no bigger than your thumb. Because of his tiny size they called him "Tom Thumb."  
One day Tom's mother was making a pudding and to see how she mixed it Tom climbed up on the edge of the bowl. His foot slipped and he fell into the batter. His mother not noticing this stirred him into the pudding and put it into the oven. Tom soon grew hotter and hotter until he could stand it no longer, and began to yell and jump up and down. When Tom's mother saw the pudding behave in such a strange manner, she thought it was bewitched and flung it out of the window. The pudding being broken to pieces by the fall, Tom was released and walked in to his mother.  
Another day a crow saw him and picked him up and flew with him to the top of a giant's castle. The giant saw him and picked him up and put him in his mouth to eat him. Tom tickled his tongue so that the giant took him out and threw him into the river. A large fish then swallowed him. The fish was soon caught for the king. When it was cut open there was Tom.  
Everybody was delighted with the little fellow. The king liked him so much that he made him his dwarf and Tom became the favourite of the whole court. One day Tom was jumping off a wall when the cook was passing with a bowl of hot milk for the king. Poor Tom jumped into the middle of it and it splashed into the cook's eyes. Down went the bowl to the ground. The cook who was very cross swore to the king that Tom had done it out of mischief. So Tom was tried and sentenced to be put in jail. When the little fellow heard this he felt very bad. With one spring he jumped down the throat of a miller who stood by.  
Tom being lost the court broke up and the miller went back to his mill. But when he got there Tom did not leave him long at rest. He began to roll and tumble about so that the miller soon had to have a doctor. When the doctor came Tom began to dance and sing and the doctor was as much frightened as the miller was. He sent in great haste for six more doctors; while all those doctors were talking about what they should do the miller yawned and Tom gave a jump and landed in the middle of the table. Then he turned around and made a low bow to each and went home to the king.  
Tom did not live very long after to enjoy the king's favour. He was always ready to help others in trouble. One day, after trying to rescue a fly from a spiders web, the spider attacked him fiercely and he was so badly wounded that he died soon afterwards.  
The king and his court missed the cheerful little fellow. In his memory they erected a beautiful monument on which was recorded all the wonderful deeds of Tom Thumb.  
 
 
Patrick Brogan, Lettermore N. S. , Drimagra, Frosses, Inver, Co. Donegal. 21-9-1938.  
I read this story in a little book that I got a long time ago.