1. 
 Near Westerhausen there are dwarf caves. Ages ago dwarfs lived there,
and they were very active in the region.
 Once a peasant was driving from Halberstadt to Börneke, which lies
about a half hour from Westerhausen. As he was approaching Mount
Tekenberg, someone shouted to him, "Wedgehead, tell Torke to come home.
His child is dead!"
 He looked around, but peering far and wide he could not see anyone who
could have called out. So he drove home, and after his arrival there,
while seated at his table, it kept going around in his head that someone
had shouted to him and that he had seen no one. So he said to his wife,
"Just think, as I was approaching Mount Tekenberg, someone shouted to me,
Wedgehead, tell Torke to come home. His child is dead!'"
 He had scarcely said this when someone called out from the best room,
"Is that so? Then I must go there at once!"
 Then they heard something fall. They went into the room and found there
a bag. It was filled with dough from their baking trough.  
 
 2. 
 There were also many dwarfs in Mount Kuckuksberg near Westerhausen and
in Mount Steinberg near Börneke. They were thick-headed people with
black faces. They wore three-cornered hats. They sometimes helped humans
and sometimes harmed them. When Old Fritz [Frederick the Great of Prussia]
came to power, he did not want them in his country any more, and he exiled
them to the other side of the Black Sea. Thus they all emigrated, and
nothing more has been heard about them since then. Formerly, however,
there were many stories about them.
 For example, once a peasant was driving past Mount Kuckuksberg when
someone shouted to him, "Leave your wagon and your horses here, and run
home quickly, and tell Kilian he should come here. His child is dead!"
 The peasant did that. Arriving at home, he gave the message, and
suddenly the bread dough fell down from above, and someone said that in
the future they should make three crosses on the bread when they leave the
dough overnight, and then the dwarfs would not be able to take it away.
 For this reason, to this very day three crosses are made on bread.