The son of a farmer on Drws Coed farm was one foggy day looking after his 
father's sheep, when crossing a marshy meadow he beheld a little lady 
behind some rising ground. She had yellow hair, blue eyes and rosy cheeks. 
He approached her, and asked permission to converse; whereupon she smiled 
sweetly and said to him, "Idol of my hopes, you have come at last!"  
They there and then began to "keep company," and met each other daily here 
and there along the farm meadows. His intentions were honorable; he 
desired her to marry him. He was sometimes absent for days together, no 
one knew where, and his friends whispered about that he had been witched. 
 
Around the Turf Lake (Llyn y Dywarchen) was a grove of trees, and under 
one of these one day the fairy promised to be his. The consent of her 
father was now necessary. One moonlight night an appointment was made to 
meet in this wood. The father and daughter did not appear till the moon 
had disappeared behind the hill. Then they both came. The fairy father 
immediately gave his consent to the marriage, on one condition, namely, 
that her future husband should never hit her with iron.  
"If ever thou dost touch her flesh with iron she shall be no more thine, 
but she shall return to her own."  
They were married -- a good-looking pair. Large sums of money were brought 
by her, the night before the wedding, to Drws Coed. The shepherd lad 
became wealthy, had several handsome children, and they were very happy. 
 
After some years, they were one day out riding, when her horse sank in a 
deep mire, and by the assistance of her husband, in her hurry to remount, 
she was struck on her knee by the stirrup of the saddle. Immediately 
voices were heard singing on the brow of the hill, and she disappeared, 
leaving all her children behind.  
She and her mother devised a plan by which she could see her beloved, but 
as she was not allowed to walk the earth with man, they floated a large 
turf on the lake, and on this turf she stood for hours at a time holding 
converse with her husband. This continued until his death.