Once upon a time there were two brothers; one was called True, and the 
other Untrue. True was always upright and good towards all, but Untrue was 
bad and full of lies, so that no one could believe what he said. Their 
mother was a widow, and did not have much to live on; so when her sons had 
grown up, she was forced to send them away, that they might earn their 
bread in the world. Each received a little knapsack with some food in it, 
and then they went their way.   
They walked until evening and then sat down by a windfall in the woods, 
and took out their knapsacks, for they were hungry after walking the whole 
day, and thought that a bit of food would taste good.   
"I think that you'll agree with me," said Untrue, "that we should eat out 
of your knapsack as long as there is anything in it, and after that we can 
eat from mine."   
Yes, True was in agreement with this, so they started to eat, but Untrue 
stuffed himself with all the best things, while True got only the burnt 
crusts. The next morning they had their breakfast from True's food, and 
they ate dinner from it too, and then there was nothing left in his 
knapsack. They had walked until late that night, and when they were ready 
to eat again, True wanted to eat out from his brother's knapsack, but 
Untrue said "No," that this food was his, and that he had only enough for 
himself.   
"Wait! You know that you ate from my knapsack as long as there was 
anything in it," said True.   
"That is all well and good," answered Untrue; "but if you are such a fool 
to let others eat up your food right in front of you, then you must make 
the best of it. All you can do now is to sit here and starve."   
"Very well," said True, "you're Untrue by name and untrue by nature. You 
have always been that way, and so you will be all the rest of your life." 
  
Now when Untrue heard this, he flew into a rage, rushed at his brother, 
and plucked out both of his eyes. "Now, try to see whether people are 
untrue or not, you blind buzzard!" So saying, he ran away and left him. 
  
Poor True! There he went walking along and feeling his way through the 
thick wood. Blind and alone, he barely knew which way to turn, when all at 
once he caught hold of the trunk of a great bushy linden tree. He thought, 
for fear of the wild beasts, that he would climb the tree and sit there 
until the night was over.   
"When the birds begin to sing," he said to himself, "I shall know it is 
day, and I can try to grope my way farther on." So he climbed up into the 
linden tree. After he had sat there a little while, he heard how someone 
came and began to make a stir and clatter under the tree, and soon 
afterward others came. When they began to greet each other, he found out 
it was Bruin the bear, Graylegs the wolf, Slyboots the fox, and Longears 
the hare, all of whom had come to celebrate St. John's Eve under the tree. 
They began to eat, drink, and be merry. When they were finished eating, 
they started to talk together. At last the fox said, "Let each of us tell 
a little story while we sit here."   
The others had nothing against that. It would be good fun, they said, and 
the bear began; for he was the leader.   
"The King of England," said Bruin, "has such bad eyesight, he can barely 
see a yard in front of him. If he would only come to this linden tree in 
the morning, while the dew is still on the leaves, and would rub his eyes 
with the dew, he would get back his sight as good as ever."   
"Very true!" said Graylegs. "And the King of England has a daughter who is 
deaf and dumb. If he only knew what I know, he could soon cure her. Last 
year she went to communion. She let a crumb of the bread fall out of her 
mouth, and a large toad came and swallowed it down. If they would just dig 
up the chapel floor, they would find the toad sitting right under the 
altar, with the bread still sticking in his throat. If they were to cut 
the toad open, and give the bread to the princess, she would be able to 
hear and to speak again, just like other people."   
"That's all very well," said the fox, "but if the King of England knew 
what I know, he would not be so badly off for water in his palace. Under 
the large stone in his palace yard there is a spring of the clearest water 
one could wish for, if he only knew to dig for it there."   
"Ah!" said the hare in a small voice; "the King of England has the finest 
orchard in the whole land, but it does not bear so much as a green apple, 
for a heavy gold chain is buried, circling the orchard three times. If he 
would have it dug up, there would not be a garden like it in all his 
kingdom."   
"Very true, I dare say," said the fox, "but now it's getting very late, 
and we should all go home."   
So they all went away together.   
After they were gone, True fell asleep, sitting there in the tree. When 
the birds began to sing at dawn, he woke up, and took the dew from the 
leaves, and rubbed his eyes with it, and thus he got his sight back as 
good as it was before Untrue plucked his eyes out.   
Then he went straight to the King of England's palace, and begged for 
work, and got it on the spot. One day the king came out into the palace 
yard, and when he had walked about a bit, he wanted to drink out of his 
pump; for you must know the day was hot, and the king very thirsty; but 
when they poured him out a glass, it was so muddy, and nasty, and foul, 
that the king got quite upset.   
"I don't think there's ever a man in my whole kingdom who has such bad 
water in his yard as I, and yet I bring it in pipes from far, over hill 
and dale," cried out the king.   
"True enough, your majesty;" said True, "but if you would let me have some 
men to help me dig up this large stone which lies here in the middle of 
your yard, you would soon see good water, and plenty of it."   
The king was willing enough. They barely had the stone out, and dug under 
it a while, before a jet of water sprang out high up into the air, as 
clear and full as if it came out of a conduit, and clearer water was not 
to be found in all England.   
A little while after, the king was out in his palace yard again, and there 
came a great hawk flying after his chicken, and all the king's men began 
to clap their hands and bawl out, "There he flies! There he flies!" The 
king picked up his gun and tried to shoot the hawk, but he couldn't see 
that far, so he became very upset.   
"Would to Heaven," he said, "there was anyone who could tell me a cure for 
my eyes; for I think I shall soon go quite blind!"   
"I can tell you one soon enough," said True, and he told the king what he 
had done to cure his own eyes. The king set off that very afternoon to the 
linden tree, and his eyes were quite cured as soon as he rubbed them with 
the dew which was on the leaves in the morning. From that time forth there 
was no one whom the king held so dear as True, and he had to be with him 
wherever he went, both at home and abroad.   
One day they were walking together in the orchard, and the king said, "I 
don't know why,  that  I don't, but there isn't a man in England who 
spends as much on his orchard as I, and yet I can't get one of the trees 
to bear as much as a green apple."   
"Well," said True, "if I may have what is buried twisted three times 
around your orchard, and men to dig it up, your orchard will bear well 
enough."   
Yes, the king was quite willing, so True got men and began to dig, and at 
last he dug up the whole gold chain. Now True was a rich man, far richer 
indeed than the king himself, but still the king was well pleased, for his 
orchard now bore so that the limbs of the trees hung down to the ground 
heavy with apples and pears sweeter than anyone had ever tasted.   
The king and True were walking about and talking together on another day, 
when the princess passed them, and the king became quite downcast when he 
saw her.   
"Isn't it a pity, now, that so lovely a princess as mine should not be 
able to speak or hear?" he said to True.   
"Yes, but there is a cure for that," said True.   
When the king heard that, he was so glad that he promised him the 
princess's hand in marriage, and half his kingdom as well, if he could 
cure her. So True took a few men, and went into the church, and dug up the 
toad which sat under the altar. Then he cut open the toad, took out the 
bread, and gave it to the king's daughter; and from that hour she got back 
her speech, and could talk like other people.   
Now True was to have the princess, and they got ready for the bridal 
feast, and such a feast had never been seen before. It was the talk of the 
whole land. Just as they were dancing the bridal dance, in came a beggar 
lad, and begged for a morsel of food, and he was so ragged and wretched 
that they all crossed themselves when they looked at him. True knew him at 
once, and saw that it was Untrue, his brother.   
"Do you recognize me?" asked True.   
"Where would a person like me ever have seen so great a lord?" answered 
Untrue.   
"You  have  seen me before," said True. "I was the one whose eyes you 
plucked out a year ago this very day. Untrue by name, and untrue by 
nature. I said it before, and I am saying it now. But you are still my 
brother, and so you shall have some food. After that, you may go to the 
linden tree where I sat last year. If you hear anything that can do you 
good, you will be lucky."   
Untrue did not wait to be told twice. "If True has got so much good by 
sitting in the linden tree, that in one year he has come to be king over 
half England, what good may I get?" he thought. So he set off and climbed 
up into the linden tree. He had not sat there long, before all the beasts 
came as before, and ate and drank, and celebrated St. John's eve under the 
tree. When they were finished eating, the fox wished that they should 
begin to tell stories. Untrue got ready to listen with all his might, 
until his ears almost fell off.   
But Bruin the bear was cross. He growled and said, "Someone has been 
chattering about what we said last year, and so this time we will hold our 
tongues about what we know." With that the beasts wished each other a good 
night, and parted. Untrue was just as wise as he was before, and the 
reason was, that his name was Untrue, and his nature untrue too.