Once upon a time there was a king who was so very learned that no
parson in the whole world could surpass him. In fact, he was so learned
that ordinary folks could hardly understand what he said, nor could he
understand them either. But in order to have someone to talk with, he
procured seven wise professors, who were not quite so learned as himself,
but who were just able to interpret his learned sayings, so that people
could apprehend them, and who could twist and turn about the talk of
ordinary folk so that it became sufficiently learned and complicated for
the king to understand it. 
 The king had no son, but he had a daughter, and in order that she
should be happily married, and the country governed according to the
fundamental principles of his learning, he issued an edict that he who was
so learned as to put the king and his professors to silence should have
his daughter and half the kingdom there and then. But anyone who attempted
the task and did not succeed, should lose his head for having dared to
exchange words with the king. 
 That was no joke. But the princess was so fair and beautiful that it
was no joke to gaze at her either. And the king did not keep her caged up,
for anyone who wished could see her. 
 There came princes and counts and barons and parsons and doctors, and
learned persons from all quarters of the world. And no sooner did they see
the princess than they one and all wanted to try their luck. But, however
learned they were, their learning never proved sufficient, and every one
of them lost his head. 
 Over in a corner of the kingdom there lived a farmer, who had a son.
This lad was not stupid. He was quick of apprehension and sharp-witted,
and he was not afraid of anything. 
 When the king's edict came to this out-of-the-way place, and the parson
had read it from the pulpit, the lad wanted to try his luck. "He who
nothing risks, nothing wins," thought the lad. And so he went to the
parson and told him that if he would give him lessons in the evenings, he
would work for the parson in the daytime, but he wanted to become so
learned that he could try a bout with the king and his professors. 
 "Whoever means to compete with them must be able to do something more
than munch bread," said the parson. 
 "That may be," said the lad, "but I'll try my luck." 
 The parson thought, of course, that he was mad, but when he could get
such a clever hand to work for him only for his keep, he thought he could
not very well say no. And so the lad got what he wanted. He worked for the
parson in the daytime, and the parson read with him in the evening. And in
this way they went on for some time, but at last the lad grew tired of his
book. 
 "I am not going to sit here and read and grind away, and lose what few
wits I have," he said. "And it won't be of much help either, for if you
are lucky things will come right of themselves, and if you are not lucky
you'll never make a silk purse out of a sow's ear." 
 And with this he pitched the books on the shelf and went his way. 
 All at once he came to a large forest, where the trees and bushes were
so thick that it was with difficulty he could get along. While he was thus
pushing his way through, he began wondering what he should say when he
came to the king's palace, and how best he could make use of the learning
he had picked up from the parson. All of a sudden the twig of a tree
struck him across his mouth, so that his teeth rattled. 
 "That is Twigmuntus," he said. 
 A little while after he came to a meadow, where a cow was standing,
bellowing so furiously that it almost deafened him. 
 "That is Cowbelliantus," he said. 
 He then came to a river, but as there was neither bridge nor planks
across it, he had to put his clothes on his head and swim across. While he
was swimming a perch came and bit him on the nose. 
 "That is Perchnosius," he said. 
 At last he came to the king's palace, where things did not look at all
pleasant, for there were men's heads stuck on long stakes round about, and
they grinned so horribly that they were enough to frighten anyone out of
his wits. But the lad was not easily frightened. 
 "God's peace!" he said, and raised his cap. "There you stick and grin
at me. but who knows if I may not be keeping you company before the day is
over, and be grinning with you at others? But if I happen to be alive, you
shall not stick there any longer gaping at people," he said. 
 So he went up to the palace and knocked at the gate. The guard came out
and asked what he wanted. 
 "I have come to try my luck with the princess," said the lad. 
 "You?" said the guard. "Well, you're a likely one, you are! Have you
lost your senses? There have been princes and counts and barons and
parsons and doctors and learned persons here, and all of them have had to
pay with their heads for that pleasure; and yet you think you'll succeed!"
he said. 
 "I should say it is no concern of yours," said the lad. "Just open the
gate, and you'll see one who's not afraid of anything." 
 But the guard would not let him in. 
 "Do as I tell you," said the lad, "or there'll be a fine to-do!" 
 But the guard would not. 
 The lad then seized him by the collar and flung him against the wall,
so that it creaked. And then he walked straight in to the king, who sat in
his parlor with all his seven professors about him. Their faces were long
and thin, and they looked like puny sickly persons about to die. They were
sitting with their heads on one side meditating and staring at the floor.
Then one of them, who looked up, asked the lad in ordinary language, "Who
are you?" 
 "A suitor," said the lad. 
 "Do you want to try for the princess's hand?" 
 "Well, that's about it!" said the lad. 
 "Have you lost your wits? There have been princes and counts and barons
and parsons and doctors and learned persons here, and all of them have
gone headless away. So you had better turn about and get away while your
head is on your shoulders," he said. 
 "Don't trouble yourself on that account, but rather think of the head
on your own shoulders," said the lad. "You look after yours, and I'll take
care of mine! So just begin, and let me hear how much wit you have got,
for I don't think you look so very clever," he said. 
 The first professor then began a long harangue of gibberish. And when
he had finished the second went on. And then the third. And in this way
they continued till at length it was the turn of the seventh. The lad did
not understand a single word of it all, but he didn't lose courage for all
that. He only nodded his approval to all of it. 
 When the last had finished his harangue he asked, "Can you reply to
that?" 
 "That's easy enough," said the lad. "Why, when I was in my cradle and
in my go-cart I could twist my mouth about and prate and jabber like you,"
he said. "But since you are so terribly learned, I'll put a question to
you, and that shall not be a long one: Twigmuntus, Cowbelliantus,
Perchnosius? Can you give me an answer to that?" 
 And now you should have seen how they stretched their necks and
strained their ears. They put on their spectacles and began to look into
their books and turn over the leaves. 
 But while they were searching and meditating, the lad put his hands in
his trouser pockets, and looked so frank and fearless that they could not
help admiring him, and wondering that one who was so young could be so
learned and yet look just like other people. 
 "Well, how are you getting on?" said the lad. "Cannot all your learning
help you to open your mouths, so that I can have an answer to my
question?" he said. 
 Then they began to ponder and meditate, and then they glanced at the
ceiling, and then they stared at the walls, and then they fixed their eyes
upon the floor. But they could not give him any answer, nor could the king
himself, although he was much more learned than all the others together.
They had to give it up, and the lad got the princess and half the kingdom.
This he ruled in his own way, and if it did not fare better, it did not
fare worse for him than for the king with all his fundamental
principles.