I [Scott's source] was prevailed upon myself to go and see a child, who, 
they told me, was one of these changelings, and, indeed, must own, was 
not a little surprised, as well as shocked, at the sight.  Nothing under 
heaven could have a more beautiful face; but, though between five and six 
years old, and seemingly healthy, he was so far from being able to walk 
or stand, that he could not so much as move any one joint; his limbs were 
vastly long for his age, but smaller than any infant's of six months; his 
complexion was perfectly delicate, and he had the finest hair in the 
world.  He never spoke nor cried, ate scarce anything, and was very 
seldom seen to smile; but if anyone called him a  fairy-elf,  he 
would frown, and fix his eyes so earnestly on those who said it, as if he 
would look them through.  
 
His mother, or at least his supposed mother, being very poor, frequently 
went out a charring, and left him a whole day together.  The neighbors, 
out of curiosity, have often looked in at the window, to see how he 
behaved while alone; which, whenever they did, they were sure to find him 
laughing, and in the utmost delight.  This made them judge that he was 
not without company, more pleasing to him than any mortals could be; and 
what made this conjecture seem the more reasonable, was, that if he were 
left ever so dirty, the woman, at her return, saw him with a clean face, 
and his hair combed with the utmost exactness and nicety.
 
 
Waldron gives another account of a poor woman, to whose offspring, it 
would seem, the Fairies had taken a special fancy.  
 
A few nights after she was delivered of her first child, the family were 
alarmed by a dreadful cry of "Fire!"  All flew to the door, while the 
mother lay trembling in bed, unable to protect her infant, which was 
snatched from the bed by an invisible hand.  Fortunately, the return of 
the gossips, after the causeless alarm, disturbed the Fairies, who 
dropped the child, which was found sprawling and shrieking upon the 
threshold.  
 
At the good woman's second  accouchement,  a tumult was heard in the 
cowhouse, which drew thither the whole assistants.  They returned, when 
they found that all was quiet among the cattle, and lo! the second child 
had been carried from the bed, and dropped in the middle of the lane.
 
But, upon the third occurrence of the same kind, the company were again 
decoyed out of the sick woman's chamber by a false alarm, leaving only a 
nurse, who was detained by the bonds of sleep.  On this last occasion, 
the mother plainly saw her child removed, though the means were 
invisible.  She screamed for assistance to the nurse; but the old lady 
had partaken too deeply of the cordials which circulate upon such joyful 
occasions, to be easily awakened.  
 
In short, the child was this time fairly carried off, and a withered, 
deformed creature left in its stead, quite naked, with the clothes of the 
abstracted infant, rolled in a bundle, by its side.  This creature lived 
nine years, ate nothing but a few herbs, and neither spoke, stood, 
walked, nor performed any other functions of mortality; resembling, in 
all respects, the changeling already mentioned.