There lived once, near Tis Lake, two lonely people, who were sadly
plagued with a changeling, given them by the underground people instead of
their own child, which had not been baptized in time. 
 This changeling behaved in a very strange and uncommon manner, for when
there was no one in the place, he was in great spirits, ran up the walls
like a cat, sat under the roof, and shouted and bawled away lustily; but
sat dozing at the end of the table when anyone was in the room with
him. 
 He was able to eat as much as any four, and never cared what it was
that was set before him; but though he regarded not the quality of his
food, in quantity he was never satisfied, and gave excessive annoyance to
everyone in the house. 
 When they had tried for a long time in vain how they could best get rid
of him since there was no living in the house with him, a smart girl
pledged herself that she would banish him from the house. She accordingly,
while he was out in the fields, took a pig and killed it, and put it,
hide, hair, and all, into a black pudding, and set it before him when he
came home. 
 He began, as was his custom, to gobble it up, but when he had eaten for
some time, he began to relax a little in his efforts, and at last he sat
quite still, with his knife in his hand, looking at the pudding. At
length, after sitting for some time in this manner, he began: "A pudding
with hide! And a pudding with legs in it! Well, three times have I seen a
young wood by Tis Lake, but never yet did I see such a pudding! The devil
himself may stay here now for me!" 
 So saying, he ran off with himself, and never more came back again. 
 
 
 
 Another changeling was got rid of in the following manner:  
The mother, suspecting it to be such from its refusing food, and being so ill-thriven,
heated the oven as hot as possible. The maid, as instructed, asked her why
she did it. 
 "To burn my child in it to death," was the reply. 
 When the question had been put and answered three times, she placed the
child on the peel, and was shoving it into the oven, when the troll-woman
came in a great fright with the real child, and took away her own, saying,
"There's your child for you. I have treated it better than you treated
mine," and in truth it was fat and hearty.