Many years ago there resided in the village of Upsall a man who dreamed
three nights successively that if he went to London Bridge he would hear
of something greatly to his advantage. He went, traveling the whole
distance from Upsall to London on foot. Arrived there, he took his station
on the bridge, where he waited till his patience was nearly exhausted, and
the idea that he had acted a very foolish part began to arise in his mind.
 
 At length he was accosted by a Quaker, who kindly inquired what he was
waiting there so long for. After some hesitation, he told his dreams. The
Quaker laughed at his simplicity, and told him that  he  had had that
night a very curious dream himself, which was, that if he went and dug
under a certain bush in Upsall Castle in Yorkshire, he would find a pot of
gold; but he did not know where Upsall was, and inquired of the countryman
if he knew, who, seeing some advantage in secrecy, pleaded ignorance of
the locality; and then, thinking his business in London was completed,
returned immediately home, dug beneath the bush, and there he found a pot
filled with gold, and on the cover an inscription in a language he did not
understand.  
 The pot and cover were, however, preserved at the village inn, where
one day a bearded stranger like a Jew made his appearance, saw the pot,
and read the inscription, the plain English of which was: 
 Look lower, where this stood 
Is another twice as good. 
 The man of Upsall, hearing this, resumed his spade, returned to the
bush, dug deeper, and found another pot filled with gold far more valuable
than the first. Encouraged by this, he dug deeper still, and found another
yet more valuable. 
 This story has been related of other places, but Upsall appears to have
as good a claim to this yielding of hidden treasure as the best of them.
Here we have the constant tradition of the inhabitants, and the identical
bush still remains beneath which the treasure was found -- an elder near
the northwest corner of the ruins.