In the meadow facing Seehausen near the Magdeburg village of Eggenstedt,
not far from Sommerschenburg and Schöningen, there is a large rock, called
"Wolf Rock" or "Werewolf Rock." 
A long, long time ago a stranger sojourned near the Brandsleber Forest,
which
belonged to the Hackel and the Harz districts.  No one knew who he was,
nor
where he came from.  Known everywhere by the name "the Old Man," he would
often
show up without notice in the villages and offer his services, which he
performed to the satisfaction of the country people.  He was most often
engaged
to herd sheep. 
It happened that a cute spotted lamb was born in a herd belonging to a
shepherd
named Melle from Neindorf.  The stranger asked the shepherd repeatedly and
fervently to give it to him, but the shepherd refused. 
On shearing day Melle engaged the Old Man to help out.  When he returned
he
found everything in order;  all the work had been done, but neither the
Old Man
nor the spotted lamb were there.  For a long time no one heard anything
about
the Old Man. 
Finally one day he unexpectedly appeared before Melle, who was grazing his
sheep
in the Katten Valley.  He called out sneeringly: "Good day, Melle, your
spotted
lamb sends his greetings!" 
Angered, the shepherd grabbed his crook in order to avenge himself.  Then
suddenly the stranger changed shape and sprang at him as a werewolf.  The
shepherd took fright, but his dogs attacked the wolf with fury.  The wolf
fled. 
Pursued, it ran through forest and valley until it reached the vicinity of
Eggenstedt.  Here the dogs surrounded him.
The shepherd called out: "Now you will die!"  Then the Old Man, again in
human
form, begged to be spared, offering to do anything.  But the shepherd
furiously
attacked him with his stick, when suddenly a sprouting thorn bush stood
before
him.  But the vengeful shepherd did not spare him, hacking away at the
branches
instead.  The stranger once again turned himself into a human and begged
for his
life.  But hard-hearted Melle remained unmoved.  Then the stranger
attempted to
make his escape as a werewolf, but a blow from Melle brought him dead to
the
earth.  A rocky cliff marks the spot where he fell and was buried, and
will be
named after him for all eternity.