Once upon a time there was a widow who had a son named Michel. One day
she said to him, "Michel, I can no longer provide for you. You must go to
the village. And when you get there, you must say, 'A hundred every day! A
hundred every day!'" 
 Michel said, "I will do that." 
 Upon his arrival in the village a funeral coach came his way, and he
cried out, "A hundred every day! A hundred every day!" 
 Then the pallbearers came and gave him a beating. Michel returned home
and said to his mother, "Mother, I got beaten up." 
 His mother asked, "Why?" 
 Michel replied, "When I arrived in the village a funeral coach came my
way, and I cried out, "A hundred every day! A hundred every day! Then the
pallbearers came and gave me a beating." 
 "You did a bad thing," responded his mother. "You should have cried and
wrung your hands." 
 "I can still do that," replied Michel. 
 When he arrived in the village again, a wedding coach came his way, so
Michel sat down and cried and wrung his hands. Then the members of the
wedding party came and gave him a beating. 
 Michel returned home again and said to his mother, "I got beaten up
again!" 
 "Why this time?" asked his mother. 
 "Well," said Michel, "when I arrived in the village a wedding coach
came my way, so I sat down and cried and wrung my hands. Then the members
of the wedding party came and gave me a beating." 
 "You did a bad thing," responded the mother. "You should have danced
and shouted, 'Happiness and joy! Happiness and joy!'" 
 "I can still do that," replied Michel. 
 When he arrived in the village this time, there was a house on fire. He
ran up to it, dancing and shouting, "Happiness and joy! Happiness and
joy!" Then the men came and gave him a beating. 
 Michel returned home again and said to his mother, "I got beaten up
again!" 
 "Why this time?" asked his mother. 
 Michel said, "When I arrived in the village, there was a house on fire.
I ran up to it dancing and shouting, 'Happiness and joy! Happiness and
joy!' Then the men came and gave me a beating." 
 "You did a bad thing," responded the mother. "You should have thrown a
bucket of water on it." 
 "I can still do that," replied Michel. 
 When he arrived in the village this time, there was a wagon standing
there filled with beehives, so he took a bucket of water and poured in on
the bees. Then the beekeeper came and gave him a beating. 
 Michel returned home again and said to his mother, "I got beaten up
again!" 
 "Oh, why this time?" asked his mother. 
 Michel answered, "When I arrived in the village, there was a wagon
standing there filled with beehives, so I took a bucket of water and
poured in on the bees. Then the beekeeper came and gave me a beating. 
 "You did a bad thing," responded the mother. "You should have said,
'Give me a sweet treat for my mother! Give me a sweet treat for my
mother!'" 
 "I can still do that," replied Michel. 
 When he arrived in the village this time, a manure wagon was just being
unloaded. Michel went up to it and said, "Give me a sweet treat for my
mother! Give me a sweet treat for my mother!" 
 "Gladly!" said the workers. "Just hold out your cap." Then they filled
his cap full to the top. 
 Then Michel went home and shouted, "Mother, mother, see what I've got
here! Mother, mother, see what I've got here!" 
 Then the mother took hold of him and gave him a beating.