We all know individuals who knowingly engage in behavior that will
ultimately hurt them: the person with poor health habits, with a fiery
temper, etc. The knowledge that cruel or self-indulging acts will with
time prove costly, unfortunately, does not assure ethical behavior. The
following tale of generational abuse illustrates this sad observation: 
 A man in the prime of life abused his aging father; he would
strike him and even drag him out of the house by his hair. When he too
became old his son treated him the same way. One day the son dragged him
out the door and onto the street. "You go too far!" cried the old man. "I
never dragged my old father beyond the gate." 
 Source: Retold from "Turn About Is Fair Play" (type 980,
Pourrat,  Treasury of French Tales,  p. 163). 
 There is, of course, always the threat of divine punishment, should a
person fail to live up to his or her family and social obligations. And
God, if we can believe the evidence of folktales, does indeed move in
mysterious ways, his wonders to perform: 
 A man, about to eat a roasted chicken, saw his aged father
coming, and hid the bird so he would not have to share it. After the old
man left, the son resumed eating, but the chicken became a toad and jumped
into his face, and it stayed there for the rest of his
life. 
 Source: Retold from  The Ungrateful 
Son  (type 980D, Grimm, no. 145). The Grimms' source was Johann Pauli, 
 Schimpf und Ernst 
(1522), ch. 437. 
 An Eskimo variation, heard in Nain, Labrador, and East Greenland, is
even crasser: 
 An old woman, blind, and lame, asked her daughter for a drink
of water. The young woman, tired of tending her old mother, gave her a
bowl of her own urine. The old woman drank it, and then asked: "Which
would you prefer as a lover, a louse or a sea scorpion?" "A sea scorpion,"
laughed the daughter, whereupon the old woman proceeded to pull sea
scorpions from the daughter's vagina, one after another, until she fell
over dead. 
 Source: Retold from "Old Age" (similar to type 980D), Millman,
 A Kayak Full of Ghosts , p. 192.