A certain boy and girl, whose names this tale telleth not, once lived
near a church. The boy being mischievously inclined, was in the habit of
trying to frighten the girl in a variety of ways, till she became at last
so accustomed to his tricks, that she ceased to care for anything
whatever, putting down everything strange that she saw and heard to the
boy's mischief. 
 One washing-day, the girl was sent by her mother to fetch home the
linen, which had been spread to dry in the churchyard. When she had nearly
filled her basket, she happened to look up, and saw sitting on a tomb near
her a figure dressed in white from head to foot, but was not the least
alarmed, believing it to be the boy playing her, as usual, a trick. So she
ran up to it, and pulling its cap off said, "You shall not frighten me,
 this  time." 
 Then when she had finished collecting the linen she went home. But, to
her astonishment -- for he could not have reached home before her without
her seeing him -- the boy was the first person who greeted her on her
arrival at the cottage. 
 Among the linen, too, when it was sorted, was found a moldy white cap,
which appeared to be nobody's property, and which was half full of
earth. 
 The next morning the ghost (for it was a ghost that the girl had seen)
was found sitting with no cap upon its head, upon the same tombstone as
the evening before. And as nobody had the courage to address it, or knew
in the least how to get rid of it, they sent into the neighboring village
for advice. 
 An old man declared that the only way to avoid some general calamity,
was for the little girl to replace on the ghost's head the cap she had
seized from it, in the presence of many people, all of whom were to be
perfectly silent. So a crowd collected in the churchyard, and the little
girl, going forward, half afraid, with the cap, placed it upon the ghost's
head, saying, "Are you satisfied now?" 
 But the ghost, raising its hand, gave her a fearful blow, and said,
"Yes, but are  you  now satisfied?" 
 The little girl fell down dead, and at the same instant the ghost sank
into the grave upon which it had been sitting, and was no more seen.