I see that you are fond of talks about fairies, children; and a story
about a fairy and the goodwife of Kittlerumpit has just come into my mind;
but I can't very well tell you now whereabouts Kittlerumpit lies. I think
it is somewhere in the Debatable Ground. Anyway, I shall not pretend to
know more than I do, like everybody nowadays. I wish they would remember
the ballad we used to sing long ago:
 Mony ane sings the gerss, the gerss, 
And mony ane sings the corn; 
And mony ane clatters o' bold Robin Hood, 
Ne'er kent where he was born. 
 But howsoever about Kittlerumpit. The goodman was a rambling sort of
body; and he went to a fair one day, and not only never came home again,
but nevermore was heard of. Some said he 'listed, and others that the
tiresome press-gang snatched him up, though he was furnished with a wife
and a child to boot. Alas! that wretched press-gang! They went about the
country like roaring lions, seeking whom they might devour. Well do I
remember how my eldest brother Sandy was all but smothered in the
meal-chest, hiding from those rascals. After they were gone, we pulled him
out from among the meal, puffing and crying, and as white as any corpse.
My mother had to pick the meal out of his mouth with the shank of a horn
spoon.
 Ah well, when the goodman of Kittlerumpit was gone, the goodwife was
left with small means. Little resources had she, and a baby boy at her
breast. All said they were sorry for her; but nobody helped her -- which
is a common case, sirs. Howsoever, the goodwife had a sow, and that was
her only consolation; for the sow was soon to farrow, and she hoped for a
good litter.
 But we all know hope is fallacious. One day the woman goes to the sty
to fill the sow's trough; and what does she find but the sow lying on her
back, grunting and groaning, and ready to give up the ghost.
 I trow [trust, believe] this was a new pang to the goodwife's heart; so
she sat down on the knocking stone [a stone with a hollow in it for
pounding grain, so as to separate the husks from the kernels], with her
bairn [child] on her knee, and cried sorer than ever she did for the loss
of her own goodman.
 Now I premise that the cottage of Kittlerumpit was built on a brae
[hillside], with a large fir wood behind it, of which you may hear more
ere we go far on. So the goodwife, when she was wiping her eyes, chances
to look down the brae; and what does she see but an old woman almost like
a lady, coming slowly up the road. She was dressed in green, all but a
short white apron and a black velvet hood, and a steeple-crowned beaver
hat on her head. She had a long walking staff, as long as herself, in her
hand -- the sort of staff that old men and old women helped themselves
with long ago. I see no such staffs now, sirs.
 Ah well, when the goodwife saw the green gentlewoman near her, she rose
and made a curtsy; and "Madam," quoth she, weeping, "I am one of the most
misfortunate women alive."
 "I don't wish to hear pipers' news and fiddlers' tales, goodwife,"
quoth the green woman. "I know you have lost your goodman -- we had worse
losses at the Sheriff Muir [a common saying, in response to a complaint
about a trifle]; and I know that your sow is unco [strangely, extremely]
sick. Now what will you give me if I cure her?"
 "Anything your ladyship's madam likes," quoth the witless goodwife,
never guessing whom she had to deal with.
 "Let us wet thumbs on that bargain," quoth the green woman; so thumbs
were wetted, I warrant you; and into the sty madam marches.
 She looks at the sow with a long stare, and then began to mutter to
herself what the goodwife couldn't well understand; but she said it
sounded like 
 Pitter patter, 
Holy water. 
 Then she took out of her pocket a wee bottle, with something like oil
in it; and she rubs the sow with it above the snout, behind the ears, and
on the tip of the tail. "Get up, beast," quoth the green woman. No sooner
said than done. Up jumps the sow with a grunt, and away to her trough for
her breakfast.
 The goodwife of Kittlerumpit was a joyful goodwife now, and would have
kissed the very hem of the green woman's gown-tail, but she wouldn't let
her.
 "I am not so fond of ceremonies," quoth she; "but now that I have
righted your sick beast, let us end our settled bargain. You will not find
me an unreasonable, greedy body. I like ever to do a good turn for a small
reward. All I ask, and  will  have, is that baby boy in your bosom."
 The goodwife of Kittlerumpit, who now knew her customer, gave a shrill
cry like a stuck swine. The green woman was a fairy, no doubt; so she
prays, and cries, and begs, and scolds; but all wouldn't do.
 "You may spare your din," quoth the fairy, "screaming as if I was as
deaf as a doornail. But this I'll let you know: I cannot, by the law we
live under, take your bairn till the third day; and not then, if you can
tell me my right name."
 So madam goes away round the pigsty end; and the goodwife falls down in
a swoon behind the knocking stone.
 Ah well, the goodwife of Kittlerumpit could not sleep any that night
for crying, and all the next day the same, cuddling her bairn till she
nearly squeezed its breath out. But the second day she thinks of taking a
walk in the wood I told you of. And so with the bairn in her arms, she
sets out, and goes far in among the trees, where was an old quarry hole,
grown over with grass, and a bonny spring well in the middle of it. Before
she came very near, she hears the whirring of a flax wheel, and a voice
singing a song; so the woman creeps quietly among the bushes, and peeps
over the brow of the quarry; and what does she see but the green fairy
tearing away at her wheel, and singing like any precentor:
 Little kens [knows] our guid dame at hame, 
That Whuppity Stoorie is my name. 
 "Ha, ha!" thinks the woman, "I've got the mason's word at last. The
devil give them joy that told it!"
 So she went home far lighter than she came out, as you may well guess
-- laughing like a madcap with the thought of cheating the old green
fairy.
 Ah well, you must know that this goodwife was a jocose woman, and ever
merry when her heart was not very sorely overladen. So she thinks to have
some sport with the fairy; and at the appointed time she puts the bairn
behind the knocking stone, and sits on the stone herself. Then she pulls
her cap over her left ear and twists her mouth on the other side, as if
she were weeping; and an ugly face she made, you may be sure. She hadn't
long to wait, for up the brae climbs the green fairy, neither lame nor
lazy; and long ere she got near the knocking stone she screams out,
"Goodwife of Kittlerumpit, you know well what I come for. Stand and
deliver!"
 The woman pretends to cry harder than before, and wrings her hands, and
falls on her knees with "Och, sweet madam mistress, spare my only bairn,
and take the wretched sow!"
 "The devil take the sow, for my part," quoth the fairy. "I come not
here for swine's flesh. Don't be contramawcious, huzzy, but give me the
child instantly!"
 "Ochone, dear lady mine," quoth the crying goodwife; "forgo my poor
bairn, and take me myself!"
 "The devil is in the daft jade," quoth the fairy, looking like the far
end of a fiddle. "I'll bet she is clean demented. Who in all the earthly
world, with half an eye in his head, would ever meddle with the likes of
thee?"
 I trow this set up the woman of Kittlerumpit's bristle, for though she
had two blear eyes and a long red nose besides, she thought herself as
bonny as the best of them. So she springs off her knees, sets the top of
her cap straight, and with her two hands folded before her, she makes a
curtsy down to the ground, and, "In troth, fair madam," quoth she, "I
might have had the wit to know that the likes of me is not fit to tie the
worst shoestrings of the high and mighty princess,  Whuppity
Stoorie ."
 If a flash of gunpowder had come out of the ground it couldn't have
made the fairy leap higher than she did. Then down she came again plump on
her shoe-heels; and whirling round, she ran down the brae, screeching for
rage, like an owl chased by the witches.
 The goodwife of Kittlerumpit laughed till she was like to split; then
she takes up her bairn, and goes into her house, singing to it all the
way:
 A goo and a gitty, my bonny wee tyke, 
Ye'se noo ha'e your four-oories; 
Sin' we've gien Nick a bane to pyke, 
Wi' his wheels and his Whuppity Stoories.