One very cold winter, when the ground was covered 
with snow and the ponds and rivers were 
frozen hard, Reynard the Fox and all the other 
animals went out to enjoy themselves by sliding 
and skating on the ice. After a time Reynard 
began to feel hungry, so he wandered off by 
himself in search of something to eat. He nosed about here, 
and he nosed about there; he lay in wait behind bushes in 
the hope of being able to catch a bird; he lurked by the walls 
of farmhouses ready to spring out upon any unsuspecting 
chicken that might show itself, but all in vain. The 
birds were wary, and the fowls were all safe in the hen 
houses. 
 
Disappointed with his lack of success Reynard betook 
himself to the river, now covered with a glistening sheet of 
ice, and there, under the shelter of a bank, he found a hole in 
the ice which had not been frozen over. He sat down to 
watch the hole, and presently a little fish popped up its head 
for a breath of air. Reynard's paw darted, and the next 
moment the unfortunate creature lay gasping on the ice. 
Fish after fish the fox caught in this way, and when he had 
quite satisfied his hunger he strung the remainder on a stick 
and took his departure, not forgetting first of all to offer up a 
prayer for the repose of his victims. 
 
He had not gone far before he met Mrs. Bruin, who had 
also come out in search of something to eat. When she 
saw Reynard with his fine catch of fish, she opened her eyes, 
I can tell you, and said, "Wherever did you get all 
those fine fishes from, cousin? They make my mouth 
water! I am so hungry that I could bite the head off an 
iron nail!" 
 
"Ah," said Reynard slyly, "wouldn't you just like to 
know!" 
 
"It is what I'm asking you," said Mrs. Bruin. "You 
would surely not be so mean as to keep the good news to 
yourself!" 
 
"I don't know so much about that," answered Reynard, 
"but I have a certain fondness for you, cousin, so come 
along with me and I will show you the place where I caught 
the fish." 
 
Nothing loath, the bear followed, and presently they came 
to the hole in the ice. 
 
"Do you see that hole, cousin?" said Reynard. "That 
is where the fish come up to breathe. All you have to do is 
to sit on the ice and let your tail hang down into the water. 
After a time the fish will come to bite at it, but don't you 
move. Sit quite still until the evening; then you will find a 
score of fishes on your tail and you can pull them out 
all together." 
 
Mrs. Bruin was delighted with the plan and immediately 
sat down and dipped her tail into the water. 
 
"That's the way," said Reynard. "Now I'll just be 
walking home to see to my dinner, but I'll be back presently. 
Be careful to keep quite still, or you ll spoil everything!" 
 
So for the next three hours Mrs. Bruin sat on the ice with 
her tail in the water, and very cold it was, but she consoled 
herself with the thought of the delicious meal she would have 
when the fish were landed. 
 
Reynard returned. " Well, cousin," siad he, "how do you feel?"
 
"Very cold," said Mrs. Bruin, with her teeth chattering. "My tail is so numb that I hardly know I've got one!"
 
"Doe it feel heavy?" asked Reynard anxiously.
 
"Very heavy," said Mrs. Bruin.
 
"There mus be  hundreds  of fish on it!" said Reynard.
 
He left the bank and walked round the bear, observing that the water in the hole had frozen over, and the Mrs. Bruin's tail was hel firmly in the ice.  
 
"I think you may safely pull up now," he went on, "but 
you must be careful to land all the fish together. There is 
only one way to do that: you must give a strong, sharp, 
sudden pull and take them by surprise. Now then, are you 
ready? One, two, three . . . !" 
 
At the word three Mrs. Bruin rose on her hind legs and 
gave a mighty jerk, but her tail was so firmly embedded in 
the ice that it would not come out. 
 
"My word," cried Reynard, "you have caught the whole 
river-full. Persevere, cousin now then, a long pull and a 
strong pull!" 
 
"Ouf!" grunted Mrs. Bruin, "ouf, ouf . . . ah!" 
 
And then she suddenly tumbled head over heels on the ice, 
as with one mighty jerk, she snapped her beautiful bushy 
tail clean off close to the roots. 
 
When she had gathered her scattered wits together well 
enough to understand what had happened, she went to look 
for Reynard, but he had suddenly remembered an important 
engagement elsewhere, and was not to be found. And from 
that time down to this every bear has been born with a little 
stumpy tail.