Although "geronticide" as a linguistic expression is not nearly as
common as "infanticide," survivals of such a practice occur in the
folktales of many lands, classified as type 981 and generically called " The Killing of Old Men ," as the intended victims 
of these 
legend-like tales are nearly always male. Such stories, in the 
tradition of believed
legends around the world, typically open with a sparse matter-of-factness,
describing the purposeful killing of old people as if everyone knew that
such acts were formerly necessary for the survival of the community.
However, as these stories usually make clear, these views were selfishly
short-sighted. The following tale from the Ukraine is typical: 
 Once it was so on earth that the old people were killed. When
a person got old they take him and kill him. "He is old," they say, "what
good is he? Why should we feed him bread for nothing?" However, one son
had pity on his father and instead of killing him, as required by law, he
hid him in the cellar and continued to feed him. A famine came to the land
and the people ate all the stored grain, even that which had been set
aside for seed. The old father, seeing the great need, told the son to
thresh the straw from their roof and to plant the seed thus gleaned. The
son did as he was advised, and the seed grew immediately, miraculously
yielding a quick and bountiful harvest. Everyone saw that it was the old
man's wisdom and God's blessing that brought the unexpected crop, and from
that time forth people have been allowed to die their own death.
 
 Source: "Why Today People Die Their Own Death" (type 981,
Mykytiuk,  Ukrainische Märchen,  no. 30). 
 This story, which has universal social utility, is told around the
world. European, African, and Asian versions differ with respect to the
nature of the problem solved by the old man, but the moral of the story
remains constant: Take care of your old people. Their knowledge, wisdom,
and experience are an invaluable resource for the next
generation. 
 Notes: For additional examples of type 981 tales see "The King
and the Thief" (Lithuania), Range,  Litauische Volksmärchen, 
no. 57;  Folk-Lore , vol. 29, pp. 238 ff.; M. Gaster, "The Killing of
the Khazar Kings" (Romania)  Folk-Lore , vol. 30 (London: Folk-Lore
Society, 1919), pp. 136-139; "Killing of the Old Men" (Romania)
 Folk-Lore , vol. 32 (London: Folk-Lore Society, 1921), pp. 213-215;
"The Mountain Where Old People Were Abandoned" (Seki,  Folktales of
Japan,  no. 53); "An Old Man's Wisdom Saves the Kingdom" (Arewa,
 Northern East Africa,  p. 180). For a study of this tale type see
Paudler,  Die Volkserzählung von der Abschaffung der
Altentötung. 
 Proverbs, too, extol the wisdom of age and admonish youth to honor
it: 
 
 Age before beauty.  
 An old man can see backward better than a young one can see forward.
 
 If an old man lacks knowledge, at least he has experience.  
 There is wisdom in age.  
 Age deserves honor.  
 He who does not honor age does not deserve age.  
 It is good to grow old in a place where age is honored.  
 Even bad parents deserve our thanks.  
 With old men take counsel.  
 Old men should be honored.  
 An old man can be outrun but not outcounseled. 
 
 
 Sources: Wander,  Deutsches Sprichwörter-Lexikon,
 vol. 1, cols. 55, 56, 62, 1503; Jente,  Proverbia Communia , nos.
181, 182, 525. 
 Those who fail to give the honor and respect due to their elders cannot
expect the approbation of fate, a belief dramatically, illustrated in "The
Old Man and the Three Young Men," one of La Fontaine's best known
versified fables: 
 An Old Man, planting a tree, was met 
By three joyous youths of the village near, 
Who cried, "It is dotage a tree to set 
At your years, sir, for it will not bear, 
Unless you reach Methuselah's age: 
To build a tomb were much more sage; 
But why, in any case, burden your days 
With care for other people's enjoyment? 
'Tis for  you  to repent of your evil ways: 
To care for the future is  our  employment!" 
Then the aged man replies -- 
"All slowly grows, but quickly dies. 
It matters not if then or now 
You die or I; we all must bow, 
Soon, soon, before the destinies. 
And tell me which of you, I pray, 
Is sure to see another day? 
Or whether e'en the youngest shall 
Survive this moment's interval? 
My great grandchildren, ages hence, 
Shall bless this tree's benevolence. 
And if you seek to make it plain 
That pleasing others is no gain, 
I, for my part, truly say 
I taste this tree's ripe fruit to-day, 
And hope to do so often yet. 
Nor should I be surprised to see -- 
Though, truly, with sincere regret -- 
The sunrise gild you tombstones three." 
These words were stern but bitter truths: 
For one of these adventurous youths, 
Intent to seek a distant land, 
Was drowned, just as he left the strand; 
The second, filled with martial zeal, 
Bore weapons for the common weal, 
And in a battle met the lot 
Of falling by a random shot. 
 The third one from a tree-top fell, 
And broke his neck. -- The Old Sage, then, 
Weeping for the three Young Men, 
Upon their tomb wrote what I tell. 
 Source: La Fontaine, Book 11, Fable 8.