Once upon a time there was a dear, brave boy who had nothing on earth but 
a blind grandmother and a clear conscience. After finishing school he 
became a ship's boy and was about to begin his first journey. He saw that 
all his new comrades were gambling with good money, but he had nothing, 
not even a penny. This saddened him, and he complained to his grandmother. 
She thought for a while, then limped into her room and returned with a 
small mill, which she gave to the boy, saying, "If you say to the mill, 
'Mill, mill, grind for me; grind this or that for me at once!' then it 
will grind for you whatever you want. And when you say, 'Mill, mill, stand 
still, for I want nothing more!' then it will stop grinding. But say 
nothing about this, or it will bring you misfortune!"   
The boy thanked her, said farewell, and boarded his ship. When his 
comrades again began to gamble with their money, he took his mill into a 
dark corner and said, "Mill, mill, grind for me; grind golden ducats for 
me at once!" and the mill ground out ducats of pure gold that fell ringing 
into his leather cap.   
When the cap was full he said, "Mill, mill, stand still, for I want 
nothing more!" and it stopped grinding.  
He was now the richest of all his comrades.   
The ship's captain was very 
miserly, and whenever there was not enough to eat, the boy had only to 
say, "Mill, mill, grind for me; grind fresh bread for me at once!" and it 
would grind away until he said the other words. The mill ground out 
anything for him that he wanted.   
His comrades often asked him how he got these good things, but he said 
only that he was not at liberty to tell them. However, they continued to press 
him, until at last he told them the whole story.   
It was not long before the evil ship's captain got wind of this, and he 
immediately hatched a plot. One evening he called the boy into his 
cabin and said, "Fetch your mill and grind out some fresh chickens for 
me!"   
The boy went and brought back a basket full of fresh chickens, but the 
godless man was not satisfied. He beat the poor boy until he brought the 
mill to him and told him what he had to say to make it grind. However, the 
boy did not tell him how to make it stop, and the captain did not think to 
ask him about this.   
Afterward when the boy was standing alone on deck, the captain went to him 
and pushed him into the sea, not thinking at all about how much care and 
concern his father and mother had given for him, nor how his blind 
grandmother was hoping for his return. He pushed him into the sea, then 
said that he accidentally had fallen overboard, thinking that this was the 
end of the story.   
Then he went into his cabin and said to the mill, "Mill, mill, grind 
for me; grind salt for me at once!" and the mill ground out grains of pure 
white salt.   
When the bowl was full the ship's captain said, "That is enough!" but the 
mill continued to grind forth. Whatever the captain said or did, the mill 
ground away until the entire cabin was full. He took hold of the mill to 
throw it overboard, but received such a blow that he fell to the floor as 
though stunned. The mill continued to grind forth until the entire ship 
was full and was beginning to sink.   
Finally the ship's captain grabbed his sword and chopped the mill into 
tiny pieces; but behold, every little piece became a little mill, and all 
the mills ground out grains of  pure white salt.   
It was soon over for the ship. It sank with man and mouse and all the 
mills. These are still grinding out grains of pure white salt at the 
bottom of the sea. And even if you were to shout out the correct command, 
they are so deep that they would not hear it. And that is why seawater is 
so salty.