Remains Unfinished 
 
 Hans Puchsbaum, a journeyman mason in the Viennese Cathedral
Construction Guild of Saint Stephen, was in love with Maria, the beautiful
daughter of Master Builder Hans von Brachawitz, who since the year 1430
had been directing the construction of the south tower. The proud builder
had selected the son of a wealthy burgher to marry his daughter and was
thoroughly opposed to her affinity for Hans Puchsbaum. 
 "If you can finish the north tower at the same hour that I complete the
south tower, then you may take Maria to wife," thundered hard-hearted
Brachawitz to his journeyman. This condition was practically impossible.
No one would be able to complete such a construction project in so short a
time. The hopes and dreams of poor Puchsbaum disappeared. In despair he
stood there and murmured to himself: "Only the devil could complete such a
masterpiece. I shall leave this city, and Maria will belong to another
man." 
 He had scarcely spoken these words when the Evil One appeared before
him. "I will help you build the tower, but during the entire construction
time you may not utter the name of God nor that of any of any of His
saints, otherwise your soul will belong to me," was the offer made to him
by the Spirit of Hell. 
 Plagued with a bad conscience, Hans asked himself if he should build a
house of God with the help of Satan. But his love of Maria conquered all
doubts, and he entered into the pact with the devil. 
 The townspeople of Vienna watched in amazement as the north tower
scaffolding grew upward and the construction advanced rapidly. Puchsbaum
himself was the most industrious of all the workers. Day and night he
mixed mortar and set stones into place. The tower, growing ever higher,
was decorated by the most glorious stone figures. Puchsbaum adhered
rigorously to the conditions set by the devil, and it appeared less and
less likely that the builder would have to surrender his soul.  
 Then the Evil One resorted to trickery. Assuming Maria's shape, he
walked across Saint Stephen's Square with his head bowed. Hans Puchsbaum,
who was standing high above on the scaffolding, recognized Maria.
Forgetting his oath, he called out her name. Immediately the heavy beams
broke apart and Puchsbaum fell to the ground. The tower remained
unfinished. No one dared continue with the devil's work.