A poor woodcutter once lived on the edge of a great forest with his
wife and his small daughter. He often did not know how he might still
their hunger, and so he decided to lead his daughter into the forest and
abandon her there.
 When he once again had nothing for himself or for his family to eat,
and he could find no work, he took his child with him into the woods and
left her in a beautiful forest meadow with the promise to return soon. To
deceive the child he tied a piece of wood to a tree with a string in such
a way that the wind swung it back and forth. Hitting against the tree, it
made a sound like someone chopping wood with an axe.
 The child was thus deceived. She looked for strawberries, played with
flowers, and after a while fell asleep -- tired from all the running
about. When she awoke the moon was already high in the sky, and her father
had not yet come.
 The child began to cry fervently, then ran deeper into the forest
looking for her father.
 Suddenly she saw a little fire with a number of little pot-shaped
containers standing nearby. Curiously, she ran up to them, laid some dry
twigs on the fire, which was about to go out, and blew with all her
strength in order to make it burn. Turning around, she saw a little man
who was smiling at her good naturedly. He was entirely gray, and his white
beard, which stuck out from his gray jacket in a strange manner, reached
down over his chest.
 The little girl was afraid and was about to run away, but the dwarf
called her back. The child reluctantly obeyed. The old man stroked her
cheeks and spoke in such a friendly manner that she lost all fear, and
helped him with his cooking.
 The gray man asked her her name and who her father was. With tears in
her eyes she told him, and he comforted her and told her she should stay
with him and become his daughter. The child accepted, and the old man led
her into his home. It was in a large hollow tree. A pile of leaves served
as his bed.
 The little man prepared a second bed so that the tired child could lie
down and rest.
 The next morning the dwarf wakened the girl and said that he had to go
away. She was to take care of the house -- as he called the tree -- while
he was away. He returned soon and showed her everything, teaching her to
cook and to do the other household chores. Thus the day passed quickly,
and night was there before she knew it.
 They lived several years happily and contentedly, and the girl had
grown up so much that was now nearly a head taller than her foster father.
Then one evening he told her that it was now time for him to make
preparations for her future. "The queen," he said, "who lives in the area
needs a faithful servant. I was there and recommended you to her, and she
is inclined to take you on." He added that if she would behave properly it
would go well with her the rest of her life.
 The next morning they went together to the castle. The maiden was
introduced to the queen, and accepted by her. She cordially took leave of
her foster father, and he promised to visit her every Sunday.
 She had not worked there long before the young king, who had been
waging war against another king, returned home victoriously. The young
king was attracted to the girl and wanted to marry her. His mother, who
also liked the maiden, gave her approval.
 When the Gray Man -- as they called him at the castle -- came again to
visit his daughter, the queen told him that her son would like to marry
his daughter, that she had given her approval, and that it thus now up to
him to express his wishes.
 The old man said sourly, "The king can marry my little daughter if and
only if he can guess my name." With that he left the castle and returned
to the woods. As usual, he made a fire and began to cook. While he was
cooking he hopped around the fire singing:
 Boil, pot, boil, 
So the king will not know 
That my name is Winterkölbl. 
The king was very concerned, and he sent out a servant to discover the old
man's name. The servant overheard the old man and rushed back to the
castle. He told the name and was rewarded with many gold pieces.
 When the dwarf returned the king greeted him with the words "Welcome,
Father Winterkölbl!"
 The old man saw that he had been outsmarted and gave his consent. The
wedding was festively celebrated, and even Winterkölbl was there. But
he could not be talked into moving into the castle, and he continued to
live, as before, in his tree.