The dogs of the air often bark on a dark night on the heath, in the 
woods, or at a crossroads.  Country dwellers know their leader Wod and 
pity the traveler who has not yet reached home, for Wod is often 
malicious, seldom kind.  The rough huntsman spares only those who remain 
in the middle of the path.  Therefore he often calls out to travelers, 
"In the middle of the path!" 
One night a drunk peasant was returning home from town.  His path led him 
through the woods.  There he heard the wild hunt with the huntsman 
shouting at his noisy dogs high in the air. 
A voice called out, "In the middle of the path!  In the middle of the 
path!"  But the peasant paid no attention to it. 
Suddenly a tall man on a white horse bolted from the clouds and 
approached him.  "How strong are you?" he said.  "Let's have a contest.  
Here is a chain.  Take hold of it.  Who can pull the hardest?" 
Undaunted, the peasant took hold of the heavy chain, and the huntsman 
remounted.  Meanwhile the peasant wrapped his end of the chain around a 
nearby oak tree, and the huntsman pulled in vain. 
"You wrapped your end around the oak tree," said Wod, dismounting. 
"No," responded the peasant, quickly undoing the chain.  "See, here it is 
in my hands." 
"I'll have you in the clouds!" cried the huntsman and remounted.  The 
peasant quickly wrapped the chain around the oak tree once again, and 
once again Wod pulled in vain.  Up above the dogs barked, the wagons 
rolled, and the horses neighed.  The oak tree creaked at its roots and 
seemed to twist itself sideways.  The peasant was terrified, but the oak 
tree stood. 
"You have pulled well!" said the huntsman.  "Many men have become mine.  
You are the first who has withstood me.  I will reward you." 
The hunt proceeded noisily, "Halloo!  Halloo!"  The peasant crept along 
his way.  Then suddenly, from unseen heights, a groaning stag fell before 
him.  Wod appeared and jumped from his white horse.  He hurriedly cut up 
the game. 
"The blood is yours," he said to the peasant, "and a hind quarter as 
well." 
"My lord," said the peasant, "your servant has neither a bucket nor a 
pot." 
"Pull off your boot!" cried Wod. 
He did it. 
"Now take the blood and the meat to your wife and child." 
At first his fear lightened the burden, but gradually it became heavier 
and heavier until he was barely able to carry it.  With a crooked back 
and dripping with sweat he finally reached his hut, and behold, his boot 
was filled with gold, and the hind quarter was a leather bag filled with 
silver coins.