Zadig's wife Azora went to console Cosrou, a young widow who only two
days earlier had buried her husband. His tomb stood on the bank of a
stream, and in her grief the widow had vowed to remain steadfastly beside
the tomb until the stream no longer flowed by it. To Azora's dismay, when
she arrived at the tomb she discovered that the once faithful widow was
now busily digging a new channel to divert the stream away from her
husband's tomb. 
 Quick to judge the widow's lapse from loyalty, Azora reported her
experience to her husband Zadig. Azora's vehement and self-righteous
reproaches led Zadig to distrust her own motivation, and, with the help of
a young friend named Cador, he devised a scheme to test her integrity. 
 Feigning death, Zadig had his body laid to rest in the tomb of his
ancestors. Azora wept, tore her hair, and vowed to die. 
 That evening Cador, whose youthful good lucks had not gone unnoticed by
Azora, came to console her, and they mourned together. The next day they
dined together as well. Then Cador informed the widow that Zadig had left
most of his fortune to him, but that he would be happy to share it with
her. She protested at first, but did not decline his offer. 
 Supper that evening lasted longer than had their dinner, and the two
conversed together intimately, until Cador suddenly complained of a
violent pain in his spleen. "It is an old malady," he claimed, "and there
is but one remedy. I can be cured only by holding against my side the
severed nose of a man who has been dead only one or two days." 
 Although the remedy seemed strange to her, she had heard of stranger
cures for other maladies. This fact, combined with the obvious merits of
the suffering man, brought Azora to the quick decision to sacrifice her
deceased husband's nose for the well-being of his young friend. Taking a
razor she went to her husband's tomb and approached the body. 
 Zadig rescued his nose only by holding it with one hand while fending
off the razor with the other. "Madam," said he, "is not your attempt to
cut off my nose as bad as Cosrou's intention of diverting a stream?"