There was once a poor woodcutter, who had a wife and three daughters 
dependent on him. One day, while he was working in the forest, a stranger 
passed that way and stopped to talk with him. Hearing he had three 
daughters the stranger persuaded him, for a large sum of money, which he 
paid on the spot, to let him have the eldest girl in marriage.   
When the woodcutter went home at dusk, he boasted of the bargain to his 
wife, and next morning, took the girl to a certain cave and there gave her 
over to the stranger, who said that his name was Abu Freywar.   
As soon as the woodman was gone, Abu Freywar said to her, "You must be 
hungry, eat these."   
So saying, he took a knife and cut off both his ears, which he gave to her 
together with a nasty-looking loaf of black bread.   
The girl refusing such food, he hung her up by the hair from the ceiling 
of a chamber in the cave, which had meanwhile become a magnificent palace. 
  
Next day, Abu Freywar went again to the forest and found the woodcutter. 
"I want your second daughter for my brother," he said. "Here is the money. 
Bring her to the cave tomorrow."   
The woodcutter, delighted at his great good fortune, brought his second 
daughter to Abu Freywar, and directly he had gone, Abu Freywar gave the 
girl his ears, which had grown afresh, to eat. She said she was not hungry 
just then, but would keep them to eat by-and-by. When he went out of the 
room, she tried to deceive him by hiding his ears under a carpet on the 
floor.   
When he returned and asked if she had eaten them, she said "Yes."   
But he called out, "Ears of mine, are you hot or cold? "and they answered 
promptly, "Cold as ice, and lying under the carpet."   
Whereupon Abu Freywar, in a rage hung her up beside her sister.   
He then went and asked for the youngest daughter, whose name was Zerendac, 
saying, that he wanted her for another brother. But the girl, a spoilt 
child, refused to go unless she might take with her a pet kitten and a box 
in which she kept her treasures. Hugging those, she went with Abu Freywar 
to the cave.   
She proved wiser than her sisters. When her husband's back was turned, she 
gave his ears to the cat which devoured them eagerly, while she ate some 
food which she had brought from home.   
When the ogre returned and cried as of wont, "Ears of mine, are you hot or 
cold?"   
He received the answer, "As hot as can be in this snug little stomach," 
and this pleased him so that from that time he began to grow very fond of 
Zerendac.   
After she had lived some days with him, he said, "I must go on a journey. 
There are forty rooms in this palace. Here are the keys, with which you 
may open any door you please except that to which this golden key 
belongs," and with that he took his departure.   
Zerendac amused herself in his absence with opening and examining the 
locked- up rooms. On entering the thirty-ninth, she happened to look out 
of the window which opened on to a burial ground, and was terrified to see 
her husband, who was a ghoul, devouring a corpse that he had just dug out 
of a grave with his long claw- like nails. She was so fascinated with the 
sight that (hidden behind the window curtain), she watched him at his 
horrible repast. A few minutes later she saw him start and hide himself 
behind a monument in the cemetery. He had been disturbed by the approach 
of a funeral.   
As the procession approached she heard one of the bearers say, "Let us be 
off as soon as possible, lest the ghoul which haunts this place get hold 
of us," and she could see that the whole company seemed very anxious.   
This discovery caused the girl great uneasiness. She was anxious to know 
what was in the fortieth room, and the discovery she had made as to the 
real character of her husband prompted her to solve the mystery at any 
cost. She took the golden key and opened the door. She found her two 
sisters still alive and dangling from the ceiling by their hair. She cut 
them down, fed them, and as soon as their health was restored, sent them 
back to her parents.   
Abu Freywar returned next day, but not for long. He left home a few days 
later, telling his wife she might invite any of her relations whom she 
cared to see. Accordingly she invited many of her friends and relatives, 
who came to see her, but heard nothing of her troubles. It was well for 
her that she did not complain, for her visitors were not the persons they 
seemed to be, but simply her husband in various shapes assumed in order to 
entrap her.   
He succeeded at last in the form of her grandmother to whom she was 
beginning to tell all her sorrows; when the old woman became Abu Freywar 
and, taking a poisoned nail, drove it into her breast. The wound did not 
kill her, but it caused her to swoon away. No sooner was she unconscious 
than the monster put her into a chest and sank it in the sea.   
Now the son of the sultan of that land was fond of boating and fishing, 
and this prince happened to cast a large net from a boat close to the 
place where the chest in which she was lay at the bottom of the sea. The 
net, happening to enclose the chest, was hauled in with the greatest 
difficulty. The sultan's son had it drawn into the boat, and, before 
opening it, said to his attendants, "If it contains money or jewels, you 
may have them all; but should it contain anything else, it is mine."   
He was greatly shocked when he saw its actual contents, and mourned the 
sad fate of that lovely girl. He had her body carried to his mother's 
chamber, to be honorably prepared for burial. During the process, the nail 
being found and removed, Zerendac sneezed and came to life again.   
She married the prince, and in course of time bore him a daughter. But one 
day, when she was alone with the child, the wall of her room suddenly 
split open, and Abu Freywar appeared. Without a word to the mother, he 
snatched up the infant and swallowed it, disappearing as suddenly as he 
had come. Zerendac was so bewildered by this fresh misfortune that, when 
asked where the baby had gone, she could only weep despairingly.   
Her second child, a son, and the third, another daughter, were torn from 
her in the same horrible manner. On this last occasion, the cruel ogre 
smeared the poor mother's face with her child's blood. She washed it off, 
but, in her hurry and anguish, missed a slight stain beneath her under 
lip. Her husband and her mother-in-law, already very suspicious, judged of 
course that she was a ghoul and had devoured her offspring.   
Zerendac told her story, but no one would believe it. Her husband, being 
loth to put her to death, ordered her to be imprisoned in a small 
underground chamber, and, at his mother's suggestion, sought another 
bride. Hearing of the beauty of the daughter of a neighboring sultan, he 
went to ask for her. But before setting out he sent for the mother of his 
lost children, and asked her what she would like him to bring her when he 
came back. She asked for a box of aloes [Arabic  sebr , also meaning 
"patience"], for a box of henna [the same word means "tenderness"], and a 
dagger.   
Her request was granted, and when the prince returned from his betrothal 
to the sultan's daughter, he brought with him these things for Zerendac. 
She opened the boxes, one by one, saying, "O box of  sebr , you have 
not in you more patience than I have shown. O box of henna, you cannot be 
gentler than I have been," and was just going to stab herself with the 
dagger, when the wall of her prison opened and Abu Frey war appeared, 
leading a handsome boy and two lovely girls.   
"Live!" he cried, "I have not killed your children. Here they are."   
He then by his magic made a secret staircase connecting her dungeon with 
the great hall of the palace. Having done this, he seized the dagger and 
slew himself.   
When the festivities in connection with the prince's marriage began, 
Zerendac sent the three children, richly dressed in clothes which Abu 
Freywar had left with her, up the staircase, telling them to amuse 
themselves without respect for the guests or the furniture. Accordingly 
they did all the damage they could think of; but the mother of the prince 
was slow to punish them, because they were pretty, and reminded her of her 
son at their age.   
But at last, losing patience, she was going to strike one of them when 
they all shouted at once, " Ya sitt Ubdûr, shun keyf el kamr 
btadûr ," which means, "O Lady Full-Moon, look how the moon is 
turning round."   
Everyone rushed to the window, and while their backs were turned the 
children vanished.   
On the actual wedding day the children appeared again when their father 
was present, ran about, breaking china and glass, and did all the damage 
they could think of. The prince forbade them.   
They replied haughtily, "This is our house, and everything here belongs to 
us and to our parents."   
"What do you mean by that?" inquired the prince.   
The children answered by leading their father down the secret staircase to 
Zerendac, who explained who they really were and how they came there. The 
prince, greatly moved, embraced her tenderly and swore to be true to her 
till his life's end.   
The sultan's daughter was returned, with excuses and a satisfactory 
present, to her father; and the prince and Zerendac lived happy ever 
after.